azure-stack/partner/azure-stack-vaas-create-oem-package.md, before:

---
title: Azure Stack Hub Validation best practices 
description: This article describes best practices for using Validation as a Service.
author: mattbriggs

ms.topic: article
ms.date: 10/28/2019
ms.author: mabrigg
ms.reviewer: johnhas
ms.lastreviewed: 10/28/2019



ROBOTS: NOINDEX

---

# Create an OEM package

[!INCLUDE [Azure_Stack_Partner](./includes/azure-stack-partner-appliesto.md)]

The Azure Stack Hub OEM Extension Package is the mechanism by which OEM specific content is added to Azure Stack Hub infrastructure, for use in deployment as well as operational processes like update, expansion, and field replacement.

## Creating the package

Once created and validated, the OEM extension package can be used in VaaS.  Before continuing, ensure that you have completed the steps for [creating an OEM package](https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/:w:/r/teams/cloudsolutions/Sacramento/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7BD7406069-7661-419C-B3B1-B6A727AB3972%7D&file=Azure%20Stack%20OEM%20Extension%20Package.docx&action=default&mobileredirect=true). The package is then submitted to Microsoft along with VaaS test results for signing in the Package Validation workflow. The following steps detail how to bundle the generated files into a single zip file that VaaS can consume.

1. Identify the following content for the package:
    - A zip file containing the package contents
    - A manifest file named `oemMetadata.xml`, which should be identical in content to the metadata.xml file in the root of the package content.

2. Select the content files and create a zip file from the contents:

    ![Zip file contents](media/vaas-create-oem-package-1.png)
    ![Compress item contents](media/vaas-create-oem-package-2.png)

3. Rename the resulting file so it is descriptive enough for you to identify it.

## Verifying the contents

To validate the structure of your zip file, inspect it and check that there are no subfolders. The TLD has the zipped contents. A valid package structure is shown below.
> [!IMPORTANT]
> Zipping the parent folder instead of the contents will cause package signing to fail.

![Properly zipped package contents](media/vaas-create-oem-package-3.png)

The zip file can now be uploaded to VaaS and signed by Microsoft in the Package Validation workflow.

## Next steps

- [Validate an OEM package](azure-stack-vaas-validate-oem-package.md)

Commit message:

SE0 metadata edits to create oem package + new pr

azure-stack/partner/azure-stack-vaas-create-oem-package.md, after:

---
title: Create an OEM package
titleSuffix: Azure Stack Hub
description: Learn how to create an OEM package in Azure Stack Hub.
author: mattbriggs
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 10/28/2019
ms.author: mabrigg
ms.reviewer: johnhas
ms.lastreviewed: 10/28/2019
ROBOTS: NOINDEX

---

# Create an OEM package

[!INCLUDE [Azure_Stack_Partner](./includes/azure-stack-partner-appliesto.md)]

The Azure Stack Hub OEM Extension Package is the mechanism by which OEM specific content is added to Azure Stack Hub infrastructure, for use in deployment as well as operational processes like update, expansion, and field replacement.

## Creating the package

Once created and validated, the OEM extension package can be used in VaaS.  Before continuing, ensure that you have completed the steps for [creating an OEM package](https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/:w:/r/teams/cloudsolutions/Sacramento/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7BD7406069-7661-419C-B3B1-B6A727AB3972%7D&file=Azure%20Stack%20OEM%20Extension%20Package.docx&action=default&mobileredirect=true). The package is then submitted to Microsoft along with VaaS test results for signing in the Package Validation workflow. The following steps detail how to bundle the generated files into a single zip file that VaaS can consume.

1. Identify the following content for the package:
    - A zip file containing the package contents
    - A manifest file named `oemMetadata.xml`, which should be identical in content to the metadata.xml file in the root of the package content.

2. Select the content files and create a zip file from the contents:

    ![Zip file contents](media/vaas-create-oem-package-1.png)
    ![Compress item contents](media/vaas-create-oem-package-2.png)

3. Rename the resulting file so it is descriptive enough for you to identify it.

## Verifying the contents

To validate the structure of your zip file, inspect it and check that there are no subfolders. The TLD has the zipped contents. A valid package structure is shown below.
> [!IMPORTANT]
> Zipping the parent folder instead of the contents will cause package signing to fail.

![Properly zipped package contents](media/vaas-create-oem-package-3.png)

The zip file can now be uploaded to VaaS and signed by Microsoft in the Package Validation workflow.

## Next steps

- [Validate an OEM package](azure-stack-vaas-validate-oem-package.md)
