azure-stack/user/gpu-deploy-sample-module.md, before:

---
title:  Deploy a graphic processing unit (GPU) enabled IoT Module on Azure Stack Hub
description: How to deploy a graphic processing unit (GPU) enabled IoT Module on Azure Stack Hub
author: mattbriggs
ms.author: mabrigg
ms.service: azure-stack
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 09/25/2020
ms.reviewer: gara
ms.lastreviewed: 09/25/2020

# Intent: As a a developer on Azure Stack Hub, I want to deploy a solution using a Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) in order to deliver an processing intensive visualization application.
# Keyword: Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) module solution
---


# Deploy a GPU enabled IoT module on Azure Stack Hub

In this article, you will install GPU drivers for your Azure Stack Hub virtual machines (VM) and begin developing modules to Linux devices running IoT Edge. IoT Edge allows you to remotely manage code on your devices so that you can send more of your workloads to the edge.

This article takes advantage of GPU optimized VMs to run compute-intensive,
graphics-intensive, and visualization workloads. GPU optimized VM sizes are
specialized virtual machines available with single or multiple NVIDIA GPUs.

In this article you'll learn how to:
  - Deploy a GPU module to an IoT Edge VM on Azure Stack Hub.
  - Benchmark processing times for GPUs and CPUs.
  - Included models: This sample includes PyTorch and TensorFlow benchmarking sample code for CPU against GPU.

## Prerequisites

You will need to have the following resources in place in your Azure Stack Hub instance, global Azure, and on your local development machine.

### Azure Stack Hub and Azure

  - A subscription as a user using Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) in an Azure Stack Hub Integrated System with an NVIDA GPU.
  - A global Azure subscription.
      - If you don't have a global Azure subscription, create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F) before you begin.
      - An Azure Container Registry (ACR). Make a note of the ACR sign-in server, username, and password.
-   A free or standard-tier [IoT
    hub](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-hub/iot-hub-create-through-portal)
    in Azure.

### A development machine

-   You can use your own computer or a virtual machine, depending on your
    development preferences. Your development machine will need to support nested virtualization. This capability is necessary for running Docker, the container engine used in this article.

  - Your development machine will need the following resources:
      - [Python 3.x](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
      - [Pip](https://pypi.org/project/pip/) for installing Python packages. This is usually been installed with your Python installation. If you have Pip installed, you may want to upgrade to the latest version. You can upgrade using pip, itself. Type: `pip install --upgrade pip`.
      - [Azure CLI 2.0](/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest)
      - [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
      - [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
      - [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
      - [Azure IoT Tools](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vsciot-vscode.azure-iot-tools) for Visual Studio Code
      - [Python Extension Pack](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=donjayamanne.python-extension-pack) for Visual Studio Code

## Register an IoT Edge device

Use a separate device to host your IoT Edge device. Using a separate device will provide a separation between your development machine and IoT Edge device more accurately mirrors a deployment scenario. 

Create an IoT Edge device in Azure with a Linux virtual machine:

1.  [Create an N-series Linux Server
    VM](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure-stack/user/azure-stack-quick-linux-portal)
    on Azure Stack Hub

2.  [Create and register an IoT Edge
    Device](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-edge/how-to-register-device)

## Prepare a GPU enabled VM

1. Deploy a GPU enabled VM in the Azure Stack Hub user portal. `This seems to be a duplicate of step 1 above.`

2. Install the NVIDA GPU Drivers by following the steps in the article, [Install NVIDIA GPU drivers on N-series VMs running Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machines/linux/n-series-driver-setup).

3.  Install the latest IoT Edge runtime on a Linux VM in Azure Stack Hub. For instructions, see [Install the Azure IoT Edge runtime on Debian-based Linux systems](/azure/iot-edge/how-to-install-iot-edge-linux#install-the-latest-runtime-version)

## Install Docker and the Nvidia driver

Install Docker and the Nvidia driver on your GPU enabled VM. You are going to run module from the IoT Edge marketplace in a container on the VM.

### Install Docker

1.  Update the apt index and lists.

    ```bash  
    sudo apt-get update
    ```

1.  Fetch the new versions of existing packages on the machine.

    ```bash  
    sudo apt-get upgrade
    ```

2.  Install dependencies required to add Docker's apt repo.

    ```bash  
    sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl software-properties-common
    ```

3.  Add Docker's GPG key.

    ```bash  
    curl -fsSL <https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg> | sudo apt-key
    add -
    ```

4.  Add Docker's apt repo.

    ```bash  
    sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable"
    ```

5.  Update apt index and lists, and install Docker Community Edition.

    ```bash  
    sudo apt-get update 
    sudo apt-get install docker-ce
    ```

6.  Verify install by checking the Docker version.

    ```bash  
    docker -v
    ```

### Install Nvidia-Docker

1.  Set the GPG key and the remote repository for the nvidia-docker package.

    ```bash  
curl -s -L https://nvidia.github.io/nvidia-docker/gpgkey | sudo apt-key add -distribution=$(. /etc/os-release;echo $ID$VERSION_ID)
curl -s -L https://nvidia.github.io/nvidia-docker/$distribution/nvidia-docker.list | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/nvidia-docker.list
    ```

3.  Update the apt index and lists, and install nvidia-docker2 and the Docker
    daemon configurations.

    ```bash  
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install -y
    ```

1.  [Install NVIDIA GPU
    Drivers](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machines/linux/n-series-driver-setup)

### Install Nvidia driver

1. Install gcc

    ```bash  
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install build-essential
    ```

2. Download and install driver from the following URL: [https://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx?lang=en-us](https://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx?lang=en-us)

    ![Nvadia install](media/gpu-deploy-sample-module/98ef3b4f7e19d3aace32f147f7591172.png)

    ```bash  
    sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-440.64.00.run
    ```

3. Install cuda from the following URL: [https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads)

4.    Verify install by running the following command:

```bash  
\$ sudo docker run --runtime=nvidia --rm nvidia/cuda nvidia-smi
```

![a valid install](media/gpu-deploy-sample-module/c8c86759e86bae0c2dabe61630b07cf5.png)

## Enable monitoring

1. Download [Azure IoT explorer](/azure/iot-pnp/howto-use-iot-explorer), and connect the application to your IoT Hub.

2. Select your IoT Device and navigate to Telemetry from the navigation menu.

3. Select **Start** to begin monitoring output from the IoT Edge Device.

## Monitor the module  

1. In the VS Code command palette, run **Azure IoT Hub: Select IoT Hub**.

2. Choose the subscription and IoT hub that contain the IoT Edge device that you want to configure. In this case, select the subscription used to deploy the Azure Stack Edge device, and select the IoT Edge device created for your Azure Stack Edge device. This occurs when you configure compute via the Azure portal in the earlier steps.

3. In the VS Code explorer, expand the Azure IoT Hub section. Under **Devices**, you should see the IoT Edge device corresponding to your Azure Stack Edge device. 

    1. Select that device, right-click and select **Start Monitoring Built-in Event Endpoint**.

    2. Go to **Devices > Modules** and you should see your **GPU module** running.

    3. The VS Code terminal should also show the IoT Hub events as the monitoring output for your Azure Stack Edge device.

        You can see that the time taken to execute the same set of operations (5000 iterations of shape transformation) by GPU is lot lesser than it is for CPU.

## Next Steps

  - Learn more about Azure Stack Hub, Data Box Edge and the Intelligent Edge, [The future of computing: intelligent cloud and intelligent edge](https://azure.microsoft.com/overview/future-of-cloud)

  - Learn more about hybrid cloud applications, see [Hybrid Cloud Solutions](https://docs.microsoft.com/hybrid/app-solutions/)

  - Modify the code to this sample on [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-intelligent-edge-patterns).

Commit message:

update screen shots and steps

azure-stack/user/gpu-deploy-sample-module.md, after:

---
title:  Deploy a graphic processing unit (GPU) enabled IoT Module on Azure Stack Hub
description: How to deploy a graphic processing unit (GPU) enabled IoT Module on Azure Stack Hub
author: mattbriggs
ms.author: mabrigg
ms.service: azure-stack
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 09/25/2020
ms.reviewer: gara
ms.lastreviewed: 09/25/2020

# Intent: As a a developer on Azure Stack Hub, I want to deploy a solution using a Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) in order to deliver an processing intensive visualization application.
# Keyword: Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) module solution
---


# Deploy a GPU enabled IoT module on Azure Stack Hub

In this article, you will install GPU drivers for your Azure Stack Hub virtual machines (VM) and begin developing modules to Linux devices running IoT Edge. IoT Edge allows you to remotely manage code on your devices so that you can send more of your workloads to the edge.

This article takes advantage of GPU optimized VMs to run compute-intensive,
graphics-intensive, and visualization workloads. GPU optimized VM sizes are
specialized virtual machines available with single or multiple NVIDIA GPUs.

In this article you'll learn how to:
  - Deploy a GPU module to an IoT Edge VM on Azure Stack Hub.
  - Benchmark processing times for GPUs and CPUs.
  - Included models: This sample includes PyTorch and TensorFlow benchmarking sample code for CPU against GPU.

## Prerequisites

You will need to have the following resources in place in your Azure Stack Hub instance, global Azure, and on your local development machine.

### Azure Stack Hub and Azure

  - A subscription as a user using Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) in an Azure Stack Hub Integrated System with an NVIDA GPU.
  - A global Azure subscription.
      - If you don't have a global Azure subscription, create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F) before you begin.
      - An Azure Container Registry (ACR). Make a note of the ACR sign-in server, username, and password.
-   A free or standard-tier [IoT
    hub](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-hub/iot-hub-create-through-portal)
    in Azure.

### A development machine

-   You can use your own computer or a virtual machine, depending on your
    development preferences. Your development machine will need to support nested virtualization. This capability is necessary for running Docker, the container engine used in this article.

  - Your development machine will need the following resources:
      - [Python 3.x](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
      - [Pip](https://pypi.org/project/pip/) for installing Python packages. This is been installed with your Python installation. If you have Pip installed, you may want to upgrade to the latest version. You can upgrade using pip, itself. Type: `pip install --upgrade pip`.
      - [Azure CLI 2.0](/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest)
      - [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
      - [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
      - [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
      - [Azure IoT Tools](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vsciot-vscode.azure-iot-tools) for Visual Studio Code
      - [Python Extension Pack](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=donjayamanne.python-extension-pack) for Visual Studio Code

## Register an IoT Edge device

Use a separate device to host your IoT Edge device. Using a separate device will provide a separation between your development machine and IoT Edge device more accurately mirrors a deployment scenario. 

Create an IoT Edge device in Azure with a Linux virtual machine:

1.  [Create an N-series Linux Server
    VM](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure-stack/user/azure-stack-quick-linux-portal)
    on Azure Stack Hub

2.  [Create and register an IoT Edge
    Device](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-edge/how-to-register-device)

## Prepare a GPU enabled VM

1. Deploy a GPU enabled VM in the Azure Stack Hub user portal. `This seems to be a duplicate of step 1 above.`

2. Install the NVIDA GPU Drivers by following the steps in the article, [Install NVIDIA GPU drivers on N-series VMs running Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machines/linux/n-series-driver-setup).

3.  Install the latest IoT Edge runtime on a Linux VM in Azure Stack Hub. For instructions, see [Install the Azure IoT Edge runtime on Debian-based Linux systems](/azure/iot-edge/how-to-install-iot-edge-linux#install-the-latest-runtime-version)

## Install Docker and the Nvidia driver

Install Docker and the Nvidia driver on your GPU enabled VM. You are going to run module from the IoT Edge marketplace in a container on the VM.

### Install Docker

1.  Update the apt index and lists.

    ```bash  
    sudo apt-get update
    ```

1.  Fetch the new versions of existing packages on the machine.

    ```bash  
    sudo apt-get upgrade
    ```

2.  Install dependencies required to add Docker's apt repo.

    ```bash  
    sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl software-properties-common
    ```

3.  Add Docker's GPG key.

    ```bash  
    curl -fsSL <https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg> | sudo apt-key
    add -
    ```

4.  Add Docker's apt repo.

    ```bash  
    sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable"
    ```

5.  Update apt index and lists, and install Docker Community Edition.

    ```bash  
    sudo apt-get update 
    sudo apt-get install docker-ce
    ```

6.  Verify install by checking the Docker version.

    ```bash  
    docker -v
    ```

### Install Nvidia-Docker

1.  Set the GPG key and the remote repository for the nvidia-docker package.

    ```bash  
    curl -s -L https://nvidia.github.io/nvidia-docker/gpgkey | \
      sudo apt-key add -
    distribution=$(. /etc/os-release;echo $ID$VERSION_ID)
    curl -s -L https://nvidia.github.io/nvidia-docker/$distribution/nvidia-docker.list | \
      sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/nvidia-docker.list
    ```

3.  Update the apt index and lists, and install nvidia-docker2 and the Docker
    daemon configurations.

    ```bash  
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install -y
    ```

### Install Nvidia-Docker

1. Install **gcc**.

    ```bash  
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install build-essential
    ```

2. Install the Nvidia driver using the commands from when you prepared your GPU enabled VM. Review the steps in the article, [Install NVIDIA GPU drivers on N-series VMs running Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machines/linux/n-series-driver-setup). For example, for Ubuntu 18.04 the commands look like:

    ```bash
    wget https://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/cuda/repos/ubuntu1804/x86_64/cuda-ubuntu1804.pin
    sudo mv cuda-ubuntu1804.pin /etc/apt/preferences.d/cuda-repository-pin-600
    sudo apt-key adv --fetch-keys https://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/cuda/repos/ubuntu1804/x86_64/7fa2af80.pub
    sudo add-apt-repository "deb https://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/cuda/repos/ubuntu1804/x86_64/ /"
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get -y install cuda
    ```

3. Verify install by running the following command:

```bash  
sudo docker run --runtime=nvidia --rm nvidia/cuda nvidia-smi
```

![a valid install](media/gpu-deploy-sample-module/gpu-valid-installation.png)

## Enable monitoring

1. Download [Azure IoT explorer](/azure/iot-pnp/howto-use-iot-explorer), and connect the application to your IoT Hub.

2. Select your IoT Device and navigate to Telemetry from the navigation menu.

3. Select **Start** to begin monitoring output from the IoT Edge Device.

![a valid install](media/gpu-deploy-sample-module/user-azure-iot-explorer-gpu.png)

## Monitor the module  

1. In the VS Code command palette, run **Azure IoT Hub: Select IoT Hub**.

2. Choose the subscription and IoT hub that contain the IoT Edge device that you want to configure. In this case, select the subscription used to deploy the Azure Stack Edge device, and select the IoT Edge device created for your Azure Stack Edge device. This occurs when you configure compute via the Azure portal in the earlier steps.

3. In the VS Code explorer, expand the Azure IoT Hub section. Under **Devices**, you should see the IoT Edge device corresponding to your Azure Stack Edge device. 

    1. Select that device, right-click, and select **Start Monitoring Built-in Event Endpoint**.

    2. Go to **Devices > Modules** and you should see your **GPU module** running.

    3. The VS Code terminal should also show the IoT Hub events as the monitoring output for your Azure Stack Edge device.

    ![a valid install](media/gpu-deploy-sample-module/gpu-visual-studio-code-iot.png)

    You can see that the time taken to execute the same set of operations (5000 iterations of shape transformation) by GPU is lot lesser than it is for CPU.

## Next Steps

  - Learn more about Azure Stack Hub, Data Box Edge and the Intelligent Edge, [The future of computing: intelligent cloud and intelligent edge](https://azure.microsoft.com/overview/future-of-cloud)

  - Learn more about hybrid cloud applications, see [Hybrid Cloud Solutions](https://docs.microsoft.com/hybrid/app-solutions/)

  - Modify the code to this sample on [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-intelligent-edge-patterns).
