azure-stack/hci/manage/get-support.md, before:

---
title: Get support for Azure Stack HCI
description: This topic provides guidance on how to get support for the Azure Stack HCI operating system.
author: JohnCobb1
ms.author: v-johcob
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 12/02/2020
---

# Get support for Azure Stack HCI

>Applies to: Azure Stack HCI, version 20H2

This topic provides guidance on how to get support for the Azure Stack HCI operating system. Azure Stack HCI follows the same support process as Azure. Enterprise customers can follow the process described in [Create an Azure support request](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-portal/supportability/how-to-create-azure-support-request). If you're a customer of a Cloud Solution Provider (CSP), contact your CSP for support.

For more information, see the [Azure Support Plans FAQs](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/faq/).

## Azure support resources for Azure Stack HCI
For information about other Azure Stack HCI support resources available through Azure, see:
- [Azure support](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/options/)
- [Compare support plans](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/plans/)
- [Azure Community Support](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/community/)
- [Knowledge Center](https://azure.microsoft.com/resources/knowledge-center/)

## Partner support resources for Azure Stack HCI
Azure Stack HCI Integrated System solution hardware from your preferred hardware partner arrives with the operating system preinstalled with the latest drivers and firmware from the hardware manufacturer.

To learn more about Integrated System partners and their solutions and support offerings, see the [Azure Stack HCI Catalog](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/azure-stack/hci/catalog/).

## Next steps
For related information, see also:
- [Azure Stack HCI FAQ](/faq.md)

Commit message:

added link to HCI Updates topic

azure-stack/hci/manage/get-support.md, after:

---
title: Get support for Azure Stack HCI
description: This topic provides guidance on how to get support for the Azure Stack HCI operating system.
author: JohnCobb1
ms.author: v-johcob
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 12/02/2020
---

# Get support for Azure Stack HCI

>Applies to: Azure Stack HCI, version 20H2

This topic provides guidance on how to get support for the Azure Stack HCI operating system. Azure Stack HCI follows the same support process as Azure. Enterprise customers can follow the process described in [Create an Azure support request](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-portal/supportability/how-to-create-azure-support-request). If you're a customer of a Cloud Solution Provider (CSP), contact your CSP for support.

For more information, see the [Azure Support Plans FAQs](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/faq/).

## Azure support resources for Azure Stack HCI
For information about other Azure Stack HCI support resources available through Azure, see:
- [Azure support](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/options/)
- [Compare support plans](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/plans/)
- [Azure Community Support](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/community/)
- [Knowledge Center](https://azure.microsoft.com/resources/knowledge-center/)

## Partner support resources for Azure Stack HCI
Azure Stack HCI Integrated System solution hardware from your preferred hardware partner arrives with the operating system preinstalled. You can expect hardware service, support, and security updates from your hardware partner for at least five years. For more information, see [Updates and upgrades](./concepts/updates.md).

To learn more about Integrated System partners and their solutions and support offerings, see the [Azure Stack HCI Catalog](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/azure-stack/hci/catalog/).

## Next steps
For related information, see also:
- [Azure Stack HCI FAQ](/faq.md)
