azure-stack/hci/manage/tenant-logical-networks.md, before:

---
title: Manage tenant logical networks
description: This topic ...
author: JohnCobb1
ms.author: v-johcob
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 01/22/2021
---

# Manage tenant logical networks

>Applies to: Azure Stack HCI, version 20H2

This topic provides step-by-step instructions on how to use Windows Admin Center to create, update, and delete logical networks after you have deployed Network Controller. A Software Defined Networking (SDN) logical network is a traditional VLAN-based network.

By modelling a VLAN-based network as a SDN logical network, you can apply network policies to workloads that are attached to these networks. For example, you can apply security access control lists (ACLs) to workloads that are attached to SDN logical networks. Applying the ACLs protects your VLAN-based workloads from both external and internal attacks.

## Create a logical network
Use the following steps in Windows Admin Center to create a logical network.

:::image type="content" source="./media/tenant-logical-networks/create-logical-network.png" alt-text="The Logical networks name box in Windows Admin Center." lightbox="./media/tenant-logical-networks/create-logical-network.png":::

1. On the Windows Admin Center home screen, under **All Connections**, select the cluster that you want to create the logical network on.
1. Under **Tools**, scroll down to the **Networking** area, and select **Logical networks**.
1. Under **Logical networks**, select the **Inventory** tab, then select **New**. 
1. In the **Logical networks** pane, type a name for the logical network.
1. Under **Logical subnet**, select **Add**.

:::image type="content" source="./media/tenant-logical-networks/create-logical-network-subnet.png" alt-text="The Logical subnet pane in Windows Admin Center." lightbox="./media/tenant-logical-networks/create-logical-network-subnet.png":::

1. In the **Logical subnet** pane, type a name for the subnet, and then provide the following information:
    1. A **VLAN ID** for the network.
    1. An **Address Prefix** in CIDR notation.
    1. The **Default Gateway** for the network.
    1. The **DNS** server address, if needed. Specify the DNS server address if this is a public logical network to provide connectivity for external clients.
1. Under **Logical subnet IP Pools**, select **Add** and then provide the following information:
    1. A logical **IP Pool Name**
    1. A **Start IP address**
    1. An **End IP address**. The start and end IP address must be within the address prefix provided for the subnet.
    1. Select **Add**.
1. On the **Logical Subnet** page, select **Add**.
1. On the **Logical networks** page, select **Submit**.
1. In the **Logical networks** list, verify that the state of the logical network is **Healthy**.

## Get a list of logical networks
TBD


## View logical network details
TBD


## Change logical network settings
TBD


## Delete a logical network
TBD


## Next steps
For more information, see also:
- [Manage tenant virtual networks]()

Commit message:

Added list and view sections

azure-stack/hci/manage/tenant-logical-networks.md, after:

---
title: Manage tenant logical networks
description: This topic ...
author: JohnCobb1
ms.author: v-johcob
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 01/22/2021
---

# Manage tenant logical networks

>Applies to: Azure Stack HCI, version 20H2

This topic provides step-by-step instructions on how to use Windows Admin Center to create, update, and delete logical networks after you have deployed Network Controller. A Software Defined Networking (SDN) logical network is a traditional VLAN-based network.

By modelling a VLAN-based network as a SDN logical network, you can apply network policies to workloads that are attached to these networks. For example, you can apply security access control lists (ACLs) to workloads that are attached to SDN logical networks. Applying the ACLs protects your VLAN-based workloads from both external and internal attacks.

## Create a logical network
Use the following steps in Windows Admin Center to create a logical network.

:::image type="content" source="./media/tenant-logical-networks/create-logical-network.png" alt-text="The Logical networks name box in Windows Admin Center." lightbox="./media/tenant-logical-networks/create-logical-network.png":::

1. On the Windows Admin Center home screen, under **All Connections**, select the cluster that you want to create the logical network on.
1. Under **Tools**, scroll down to the **Networking** area, and select **Logical networks**.
1. Under **Logical networks**, select the **Inventory** tab, then select **New**. 
1. In the **Logical networks** pane, type a name for the logical network.
1. Under **Logical subnet**, select **Add**.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/tenant-logical-networks/create-logical-network-subnet.png" alt-text="The Logical subnet pane in Windows Admin Center." lightbox="./media/tenant-logical-networks/create-logical-network-subnet.png":::

1. In the **Logical subnet** pane, type a name for the subnet, and then provide the following information:
    1. A **VLAN ID** for the network.
    1. An **Address Prefix** in CIDR notation.
    1. The **Default Gateway** for the network.
    1. The **DNS** server address, if needed.
    1. Select the **Public Logical network** checkbox if the logical network is to provide connectivity for external clients.
1. Under **Logical subnet IP Pools**, select **Add** and then provide the following information:
    1. A logical **IP Pool Name**
    1. A **Start IP address**
    1. An **End IP address**. The start and end IP address must be within the address prefix provided for the subnet.
    1. Select **Add**.
1. On the **Logical Subnet** page, select **Add**.
1. On the **Logical networks** page, select **Submit**.
1. In the **Logical networks** list, verify that the state of the logical network is **Healthy**.

## Get a list of logical networks
You can easily see all of the logical networks in your cluster.

:::image type="content" source="./media/tenant-logical-networks/list-logical-networks.png" alt-text="The Inventory pane of Logical networks in Windows Admin Center." lightbox="./media/tenant-logical-networks/list-logical-networks.png":::

1. On the Windows Admin Center home screen, under **All Connections**, select the cluster on which you want to view logical networks.
1. Under **Tools**, scroll down to the **Networking** area, and select **Logical networks**.
1. The **Inventory** tab lists all logical network available on the cluster, and provides commands to manage individual logical networks. You can:
    - View the list of logical networks.
    - View the logical network settings, the state of the logical network, and whether network virtualization is enabled for the logical network. If network virtualization is enabled, you can also view the number of virtual networks associated with this logical network.
    - Change settings for a logical network.
    - Delete a logical network.

## View logical network details
You can view detailed information for a specific logical network from its dedicated page.

:::image type="content" source="./media/tenant-logical-networks/view-logical-network-details.png" alt-text="The details view of a logical network in Windows Admin Center." lightbox="./media/tenant-logical-networks/view-logical-network-details.png":::

1. Under **Tools**, scroll down to the **Networking** area, and select **Logical networks**.
1. Select the **Inventory** tab, and then select the logical network that you want to view details on. On the subsequent page, you can:
    - View the provisioning state of the logical network (Succeeded, Failed).
    - View whether network virtualization is enabled for the logical network.
    - View the subnets in the logical network.
    - Add new subnets, delete existing subnets, and modify the settings for a logical network subnet.
    - Select each subnet to go to its **Subnet** page, where you can add, remove, and modify logical subnet IP pools.
    - View virtual networks and connections associated with the logical network.

## Change logical network settings
TBD


## Delete a logical network
TBD


## Next steps
For more information, see also:
- [Manage tenant virtual networks]()
