---
title: Customer Defined Values | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn what you can customize on your Azure Stack switch configuration.
services: azure-stack
documentationcenter: ''
author: Wagner Mota
manager: 
editor: ''

ms.assetid: 
ms.service: azure-stack
ms.workload: na
pms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 08/08/2019
ms.author: wamota
ms.reviewer: 
ms.lastreviewed: 08/08/2019
---

# Network Switch Configuration - Customer Defined Values

During deployment of the Azure Stack solution, the OEM will generate and apply the switch (both TORs and BMC) configuration using our automation tool to guarantee all required configuration is properly set on those devices.  This configuration is calculated based on the information provided on the [Deployment Worksheet](azure-stack-deployment-worksheet.md) and after it is generated, it should not be altered without consent from either the OEM or Microsoft Azure Stack engineering team.  Changing the network device configuration can significantly impact the operation and/or troubleshooting of network issues in the solution.

However, there are some values that can be added, removed or changed on the configuration of the network switches.  When the configuration is generated by the automation tool, it also generates the templates with the specific changes allowed. This article explains each of those customizations and how they can impact your Azure Stack solution.

>[!NOTE]
>For more information about these functions on your network device or how to make these changes, please contact your OEM hardware provider

## Password Update

The operator may change the passwords for any user on the network switches at any time, there is no requirement to change any information on the Azure Stack system nor use the steps for [Update Secrets](azure-stack-rotate-secrets.md).

## Syslog Server

The operator can redirect the switch logs to a syslog server on his datacenter. We recommend this configuration to ensure logs of a particular point in time will be available if needed for troubleshooting.  By default, the logs are stored on the switches and their capacity for logging is very limited. Please check the [ACL Updates] section of this article to configure the permissions for Switch Management access.

## SNMP Monitoring

The operator can configure SNMP v2 or v3 to monitor the network devices and send traps to a network monitoring application on the datacenter. For security reasons, we strongly recommend the use of SNMPv3 as it is far more secure than v2.  Please consult your OEM hardware provider for the MIBs and configuration required. Please check the [ACL Updates] section of this article to configure the permissions for Switch Management access.

## Authentication

The operator can configure either RADIUS or TACACS to manage authentication on the network devices. Please consult your OEM hardware provider for supported methods and configuration required. Please check the [ACL Updates] section of this article to configure the permissions for Switch Management access.

## Access Control List (ACL)

The operator can change some ACLs to allow access to network device management interfaces and the Hardware Lifecycle Host (HLH) from a trusted datacenter network range. The operator can pick and choose which component will be reachable and from where, i.e.: the operator can allow their management jumpbox VMs within a specific network range to access the switch management interface, and/or the HLH OS, and/or the HLH BMC.

## Next steps
[DNS integration](azure-stack-integrate-dns.md)
