azure-stack/operator/azure-stack-subscribe-plan-provision-vm.md, before:

---
title: Subscribe to an offer
titleSuffix: Azure Stack
description: Learn to create subscriptions for offers in Azure Stack.
services: azure-stack
documentationcenter: ''
author: bryanla
manager: femila
ms.service: azure-stack
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 10/05/2019
ms.author: bryanla
ms.lastreviewed: 05/10/2019
---
# Create subscriptions to offers in Azure Stack

*Applies to: Azure Stack integrated systems and Azure Stack Development Kit*

After you [create an offer](azure-stack-create-offer.md), users need a subscription to that offer before they can use it. There are two ways that users can get subscribed to an offer:

- As a cloud operator, you can create a subscription for a user from within the administrator portal. Subscriptions you create can be for both public and private offers.
- As a tenant user, you can subscribe to a public offer when you use the user portal.  

## Create a subscription as a cloud operator

Cloud operators use the administrator portal to create a subscription to an offer for a user. Subscriptions can be created for members of your own directory tenant. When [multi-tenancy](azure-stack-enable-multitenancy.md) is enabled, you can also create subscriptions for users in additional directory tenants.

If don't want your tenants to create their own subscriptions, make your offers private, and then create subscriptions for your tenants. This approach is common when integrating Azure Stack with external billing or service catalog systems.

After you create a subscription for a user, they can sign in to the user portal and see that they're subscribed to the offer.  

### To create a subscription for a user

1. In the Admin portal, go to **User subscriptions.**
2. Select **Add**. Under **New user subscription**, enter the following information:  

   - **Display name** - A friendly name for identifying the subscription that appears as the *User subscription name*.
   - **User** - Specify a user from an available directory tenant for this subscription. The user name appears as *Owner*.  The format of the user name depends on your identity solution. For example:

     - **Azure AD:** `<user1>@<contoso.onmicrosoft.com>`

     - **AD FS:** `<user1>@<azurestack.local>`

   - **Directory tenant** -  Select the directory tenant where the user account belongs. If you haven't enabled multi-tenancy, only your local directory tenant is available.

3. Select **Offer**. Under **Offers**, choose an **Offer** for this subscription. Because you're creating the subscription for a user, select **Private** as the accessibility state.

4. Select **Create** to create the subscription. The new subscription appears under **User subscription**. When the user signs in to the user portal, they can see the subscription details.

### To make an add-on plan available

A cloud operator can add a plan to a previously created subscription at any time:

1. In the admin portal, select **All Services** and then under the **ADMINISTRATIVE RESOURCES** category, select **User subscriptions**. Select the subscription you want to change.

2. Select **Add-ons**  and then select **+Add**.  

3. Under **Add plan**, select the plan you want as an add-on.

## Create a subscription as a user

As a user, you can sign in to the user portal to locate and subscribe to public offers and add-on plans for your directory tenant (organization).

>[!NOTE]
>If your Azure Stack environment supports [multi-tenancy](azure-stack-enable-multitenancy.md), you can also subscribe to offers from a remote directory tenant.

### To subscribe to an offer

1. [Sign in](../asdk/asdk-connect.md) to the [Azure Stack user portal](https://portal.local.azurestack.external) and select **Get a Subscription**.

   ![Get a subscription](media/azure-stack-subscribe-plan-provision-vm/image01.png)
  
2. Under **Get a subscription**, enter the friendly name of the subscription in **Display Name**. Select **Offer** and under **Choose an offer**, pick an offer. Select **Create** to create the subscription.

   ![Create an offer](media/azure-stack-subscribe-plan-provision-vm/image02.png)
  
3. After you subscribe to an offer, refresh the portal to see which services are part of the new subscription.

4. To see the subscription you created, select **All services** and then under the **GENERAL** category select **Subscriptions**. Select the subscription to see the subscription details.  

### To enable an add-on plan in your subscription

If the offer you subscribe to has an add-on plan, you can add that plan to your subscription at any time.  

1. In the user portal, select **All services**. Next, under the **GENERAL** category, select **Subscriptions**, and then select the subscription that you want change. If there are add-on plans available, **+ Add plan** is active and shows a tile for **Add-on plans**.

   If **+ Add plan** is not active, then there are no add-on plans for the offer associated with that subscription.

1. Select **+ Add plan** or the **Add-on plans** tile. Under **Add-on plans**, select the plan you want to add.

## Next steps

Learn more about how a user can now deploy resources into their subscription: 
  - [Several user quickstarts](../user/azure-stack-quick-windows-portal.md) show how to provision Windows and Linux virtual machines using PowerShell, Azure CLI, and the user portal. 
  - [A tutorial that uses an Azure Resource Manager template](../user/azure-stack-create-vm-template.md) shows how to deploy an Ubuntu 16.04 virtual machine running Minikube to manage kubenetes cluster.

Commit message:

first full edit to subscribe plan provision

azure-stack/operator/azure-stack-subscribe-plan-provision-vm.md, after:

---
title: Subscribe to an offer
titleSuffix: Azure Stack
description: Learn to create subscriptions for offers in Azure Stack.
services: azure-stack
documentationcenter: ''
author: bryanla
manager: femila
ms.service: azure-stack
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 10/05/2019
ms.author: bryanla
ms.lastreviewed: 05/10/2019
---
# Create subscriptions to offers in Azure Stack

*Applies to: Azure Stack integrated systems and Azure Stack Development Kit*

After you [create an offer](azure-stack-create-offer.md), users need a subscription to that offer before they can use it. There are two ways that users can subscribe to an offer:

- As a cloud operator, you can create a subscription for a user from within the administrator portal. Subscriptions you create can be for both public and private offers.
- As a tenant user, you can subscribe to a public offer when you use the user portal.  

## Create a subscription as a cloud operator

Cloud operators use the administrator portal to create a subscription to an offer for a user. Subscriptions can be created for members of your own directory tenant. When [multi-tenancy](azure-stack-enable-multitenancy.md) is enabled, you can also create subscriptions for users in additional directory tenants.

If you don't want your tenants to create their own subscriptions, make your offers private, and then create subscriptions for your tenants. This approach is common when integrating Azure Stack with external billing or service catalog systems.

After you create a subscription for a user, they can sign in to the user portal and see that they're subscribed to the offer.  

### To create a subscription for a user

1. In the administrator portal, go to **User subscriptions.**
2. Select **Add**. Under **New user subscription**, enter the following information:  

   - **Display name** - A friendly name for identifying the subscription that appears as the *User subscription name*.
   - **User** - Specify a user from an available directory tenant for this subscription. The user name appears as *Owner*.  The format of the user name depends on your identity solution. For example:

     - **Azure AD:** `<user1>@<contoso.onmicrosoft.com>`

     - **AD FS:** `<user1>@<azurestack.local>`

   - **Directory tenant** -  Select the directory tenant where the user account belongs. If you haven't enabled multi-tenancy, only your local directory tenant is available.

3. Select **Offer**. Under **Offers**, choose an **Offer** for this subscription. Because you're creating the subscription for a user, select **Private** as the accessibility state.

4. Select **Create** to create the subscription. The new subscription appears under **User subscription**. When the user signs in to the user portal, they can see the subscription details.

### To make an add-on plan available

A cloud operator can add a plan to a previously created subscription at any time:

1. In the administrator portal, select **All Services** and then under the **ADMINISTRATIVE RESOURCES** category, select **User subscriptions**. Select the subscription you want to change.

2. Select **Add-ons**  and then select **+Add**.  

3. Under **Add plan**, select the plan you want as an add-on.

## Create a subscription as a user

As a user, you can sign in to the user portal to locate and subscribe to public offers and add-on plans for your directory tenant (organization).

>[!NOTE]
>If your Azure Stack environment supports [multi-tenancy](azure-stack-enable-multitenancy.md), you can also subscribe to offers from a remote directory tenant.

### To subscribe to an offer

1. [Sign in](../asdk/asdk-connect.md) to the [Azure Stack user portal](https://portal.local.azurestack.external) and select **Get a Subscription**.

   ![Get a subscription in Azure Stack user portal](media/azure-stack-subscribe-plan-provision-vm/image01.png)
  
2. Under **Get a subscription**, enter the friendly name of the subscription in **Display Name**. Select **Offer** and under **Choose an offer**, pick an offer. Select **Create** to create the subscription.

   ![Choose an offer in Azure Stack user portal](media/azure-stack-subscribe-plan-provision-vm/image02.png)
  
3. After you subscribe to an offer, refresh the portal to see which services are part of the new subscription.

4. To see the subscription you created, select **All services** and then under the **GENERAL** category select **Subscriptions**. Select the subscription to see the subscription details.  

### To enable an add-on plan in your subscription

If the offer you subscribe to has an add-on plan, you can add that plan to your subscription at any time.  

1. In the user portal, select **All services**. Next, under the **GENERAL** category, select **Subscriptions**, and then select the subscription that you want change. If there are add-on plans available, **+ Add plan** is active and shows a tile for **Add-on plans**.

   If **+ Add plan** isn't active, then there are no add-on plans for the offer associated with that subscription.

1. Select **+ Add plan** or the **Add-on plans** tile. Under **Add-on plans**, select the plan you want to add.

## Next steps

Learn more about how a user can now deploy resources into their subscription: 
  - [Several user quickstarts](../user/azure-stack-quick-windows-portal.md) show how to provision Windows and Linux virtual machines using PowerShell, Azure CLI, and the user portal. 
  - [A tutorial that uses an Azure Resource Manager template](../user/azure-stack-create-vm-template.md) shows how to deploy an Ubuntu 16.04 virtual machine running Minikube to manage kubenetes cluster.
