azure-stack/operator/azure-stack-sql-resource-provider-deploy.md, before:

---
title: Deploy SQL Server resource provider
titleSuffix: Azure Stack Hub
description: Learn how to deploy the SQL Server resource provider on Azure Stack Hub.
author: bryanla

ms.topic: article
ms.date: 10/02/2019
ms.lastreviewed: 03/18/2019
ms.author: bryanla
ms.reviewer: xiao

# Intent: As an Azure Stack operator, I want to deploy the SQL server resource provider.
# Keyword: deploy sql server resource provider azure stack

---


# Deploy the SQL Server resource provider on Azure Stack Hub

Use the Azure Stack Hub SQL Server resource provider to expose SQL databases as an Azure Stack Hub service. The SQL resource provider runs as a service on a Windows Server 2016 Server Core virtual machine (VM).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Only the resource provider is supported to create items on servers that host SQL or MySQL. Items created on a host server that aren't created by the resource provider might result in a mismatched state.

## Prerequisites

There are several prerequisites that need to be in place before you can deploy the Azure Stack Hub SQL resource provider. To meet these requirements, complete the following steps on a computer that can access the privileged endpoint VM:

- If you haven't already, [register Azure Stack Hub](azure-stack-registration.md) with Azure so you can download Azure Marketplace items.

- Add the required Windows Server core VM to Azure Stack Hub Marketplace by downloading the **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter - Server Core** image.

- Download the SQL resource provider binary and then run the self-extractor to extract the contents to a temporary directory. The resource provider has a minimum corresponding Azure Stack Hub build.

  |Minimum Azure Stack Hub version|SQL RP version|
  |-----|-----|
  |Version 1910 (1.1910.0.58)|[SQL RP version 1.1.47.0](https://aka.ms/azurestacksqlrp11470)|
  |Version 1808 (1.1808.0.97)|[SQL RP version 1.1.33.0](https://aka.ms/azurestacksqlrp11330)|  
  |Version 1808 (1.1808.0.97)|[SQL RP version 1.1.30.0](https://aka.ms/azurestacksqlrp11300)|  
  |Version 1804 (1.0.180513.1)|[SQL RP version 1.1.24.0](https://aka.ms/azurestacksqlrp11240)  
  |     |     |

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Before deploying the SQL resource provider version 1.1.47.0, you should have your Azure Stack Hub system upgraded to 1910 update or later versions. The SQL resource provider version 1.1.47.0 on previous unsupported Azure Stack Hub versions doesn't work.

- Ensure datacenter integration prerequisites are met:

    |Prerequisite|Reference|
    |-----|-----|
    |Conditional DNS forwarding is set correctly.|[Azure Stack Hub datacenter integration - DNS](azure-stack-integrate-dns.md)|
    |Inbound ports for resource providers are open.|[Azure Stack Hub datacenter integration - Ports and protocols inbound](azure-stack-integrate-endpoints.md#ports-and-protocols-inbound)|
    |PKI certificate subject and SAN are set correctly.|[Azure Stack Hub deployment mandatory PKI prerequisites](azure-stack-pki-certs.md)<br>[Azure Stack Hub deployment PaaS certificate prerequisites](azure-stack-pki-certs.md)|
    |     |     |

In a disconnected scenario, complete the following steps to download the required PowerShell modules and register the repository manually.

1. Sign in to a computer with internet connectivity and use the following scripts to download the PowerShell modules.

```powershell
Import-Module -Name PowerShellGet -ErrorAction Stop
Import-Module -Name PackageManagement -ErrorAction Stop

# path to save the packages, c:\temp\azs1.6.0 as an example here
$Path = "c:\temp\azs1.6.0"
Save-Package -ProviderName NuGet -Source https://www.powershellgallery.com/api/v2 -Name AzureRM -Path $Path -Force -RequiredVersion 2.3.0
Save-Package -ProviderName NuGet -Source https://www.powershellgallery.com/api/v2 -Name AzureStack -Path $Path -Force -RequiredVersion 1.6.0
```

2. Then you copy the downloaded packages to a USB device.

3. Sign in to the disconnected workstation and copy the packages from the USB device to a location on the workstation.

4. Register this location as a local repository.

```powershell
# requires -Version 5
# requires -RunAsAdministrator
# requires -Module PowerShellGet
# requires -Module PackageManagement

$SourceLocation = "C:\temp\azs1.6.0"
$RepoName = "azs1.6.0"

Register-PSRepository -Name $RepoName -SourceLocation $SourceLocation -InstallationPolicy Trusted

New-Item -Path $env:ProgramFiles -name "SqlMySqlPsh" -ItemType "Directory"
```

### Certificates

_For integrated systems installations only_. You must provide the SQL PaaS PKI certificate described in the optional PaaS certificates section of [Azure Stack Hub deployment PKI requirements](./azure-stack-pki-certs.md). Place the .pfx file in the location specified by the **DependencyFilesLocalPath** parameter. Don't provide a certificate for ASDK systems.

## Deploy the SQL resource provider

After you've installed all the prerequisites, run the **DeploySqlProvider.ps1** script from a computer that can access both the Azure Stack Hub Admin Azure Resource Management Endpoint and Privileged Endpoint to deploy the SQL resource provider. The DeploySqlProvider.ps1 script is extracted as part of the SQL resource provider binary that you downloaded for your version of Azure Stack Hub.

 > [!IMPORTANT]
 > Before deploying the resource provider, review the release notes to learn about new functionality, fixes, and any known issues that could affect your deployment.

To deploy the SQL resource provider, open a **new** elevated PowerShell window (not PowerShell ISE) and change to the directory where you extracted the SQL resource provider binary files. We recommend using a new PowerShell window to avoid potential problems caused by PowerShell modules that are already loaded.

Run the DeploySqlProvider.ps1 script, which completes the following tasks:

- Uploads the certificates and other artifacts to a storage account on Azure Stack Hub.
- Publishes gallery packages so you can deploy SQL databases using the gallery.
- Publishes a gallery package for deploying hosting servers.
- Deploys a VM using the Windows Server 2016 core image you downloaded, and then installs the SQL resource provider.
- Registers a local DNS record that maps to your resource provider VM.
- Registers your resource provider with the local Azure Resource Manager for the operator account.

> [!NOTE]
> When the SQL resource provider deployment starts, the **system.local.sqladapter** resource group is created. It may take up to 75 minutes to finish the required deployments to this resource group. You should not place any other resources in the **system.local.sqladapter** resource group.

### DeploySqlProvider.ps1 parameters

You can specify the following parameters from the command line. If you don't, or if any parameter validation fails, you're prompted to provide the required parameters.

| Parameter name | Description | Comment or default value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **CloudAdminCredential** | The credential for the cloud admin, necessary for accessing the privileged endpoint. | _Required_ |
| **AzCredential** | The credentials for the Azure Stack Hub service admin account. Use the same credentials that you used for deploying Azure Stack Hub. The script will fail if the account you use with AzCredential requires multi-factor authentication (MFA).| _Required_ |
| **VMLocalCredential** | The credentials for the local admin account of the SQL resource provider VM. | _Required_ |
| **PrivilegedEndpoint** | The IP address or DNS name of the privileged endpoint. |  _Required_ |
| **AzureEnvironment** | The Azure environment of the service admin account used for deploying Azure Stack Hub. Required only for Azure AD deployments. Supported environment names are **AzureCloud**, **AzureUSGovernment**, or if using a China Azure Active Directory, **AzureChinaCloud**. | AzureCloud |
| **DependencyFilesLocalPath** | For integrated systems only, your certificate .pfx file must be placed in this directory. You can optionally copy one Windows Update MSU package here. | _Optional_ (_mandatory_ for integrated systems) |
| **DefaultSSLCertificatePassword** | The password for the .pfx certificate. | _Required_ |
| **MaxRetryCount** | The number of times you want to retry each operation if there's a failure.| 2 |
| **RetryDuration** | The timeout interval between retries, in seconds. | 120 |
| **Uninstall** | Removes the resource provider and all associated resources (see the following notes). | No |
| **DebugMode** | Prevents automatic cleanup on failure. | No |

## Deploy the SQL resource provider using a custom script

If you're deploying the SQL resource provider version 1.1.33.0 or previous versions, you need to install specific versions of AzureRm.BootStrapper and Azure Stack Hub modules in PowerShell. If you're deploying the SQL resource provider version 1.1.47.0, the deployment script will automatically download and install the necessary PowerShell modules for you to path C:\Program Files\SqlMySqlPsh.

```powershell
# Install the AzureRM.Bootstrapper module, set the profile, and install the AzureStack module
# Note that this might not be the most currently available version of Azure Stack Hub PowerShell
Install-Module -Name AzureRm.BootStrapper -RequiredVersion 0.5.0 -Force
Use-AzureRmProfile -Profile 2018-03-01-hybrid -Force
Install-Module -Name AzureStack -RequiredVersion 1.6.0
```

> [!NOTE]
> In disconnected scenario, you need to download the required PowerShell modules and register the repository manually as a prerequisite.

To eliminate any manual configuration when deploying the resource provider, you can customize the following script. Change the default account information and passwords as needed for your Azure Stack Hub deployment.

```powershell
# Use the NetBIOS name for the Azure Stack Hub domain. On the Azure Stack Hub SDK, the default is AzureStack but could have been changed at install time.
$domain = "AzureStack"

# For integrated systems, use the IP address of one of the ERCS VMs
$privilegedEndpoint = "AzS-ERCS01"

# Provide the Azure environment used for deploying Azure Stack Hub. Required only for Azure AD deployments. Supported values for the <environment name> parameter are AzureCloud, AzureChinaCloud, or AzureUSGovernment depending which Azure subscription you're using.
$AzureEnvironment = "<EnvironmentName>"

# Point to the directory where the resource provider installation files were extracted.
$tempDir = 'C:\TEMP\SQLRP'

# The service admin account can be Azure Active Directory or Active Directory Federation Services.
$serviceAdmin = "admin@mydomain.onmicrosoft.com"
$AdminPass = ConvertTo-SecureString 'P@ssw0rd1' -AsPlainText -Force
$AdminCreds = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential ($serviceAdmin, $AdminPass)

# Set credentials for the new resource provider VM local admin account.
$vmLocalAdminPass = ConvertTo-SecureString 'P@ssw0rd1' -AsPlainText -Force
$vmLocalAdminCreds = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential ("sqlrpadmin", $vmLocalAdminPass)

# Add the cloudadmin credential that's required for privileged endpoint access.
$CloudAdminPass = ConvertTo-SecureString 'P@ssw0rd1' -AsPlainText -Force
$CloudAdminCreds = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential ("$domain\cloudadmin", $CloudAdminPass)

# Change the following as appropriate.
$PfxPass = ConvertTo-SecureString 'P@ssw0rd1' -AsPlainText -Force

# For version 1.1.47.0, the PowerShell modules used by the RP deployment are placed in C:\Program Files\SqlMySqlPsh
# The deployment script adds this path to the system $env:PSModulePath to ensure correct modules are used.
$rpModulePath = Join-Path -Path $env:ProgramFiles -ChildPath 'SqlMySqlPsh'
$env:PSModulePath = $env:PSModulePath + ";" + $rpModulePath 

# Change to the directory folder where you extracted the installation files. Don't provide a certificate on ASDK!
. $tempDir\DeploySQLProvider.ps1 `
    -AzCredential $AdminCreds `
    -VMLocalCredential $vmLocalAdminCreds `
    -CloudAdminCredential $cloudAdminCreds `
    -PrivilegedEndpoint $privilegedEndpoint `
    -AzureEnvironment $AzureEnvironment `
    -DefaultSSLCertificatePassword $PfxPass `
    -DependencyFilesLocalPath $tempDir\cert

 ```

When the resource provider installation script finishes, refresh your browser to make sure you can see the latest updates and close the current PowerShell session.

## Verify the deployment using the Azure Stack Hub portal

You can use the following steps verify that the SQL resource provider is successfully deployed.

1. Sign in to the administrator portal as the service admin.
2. Select **Resource Groups**.
3. Select the **system.\<location\>.sqladapter** resource group.
4. On the summary page for Resource group Overview, there should be no failed deployments.

    ![Verify deployment of the SQL resource provider in Azure Stack Hub administrator portal](./media/azure-stack-sql-rp-deploy/sqlrp-verify.png)

5. Finally, select **Virtual machines** in the administrator portal to verify that the SQL resource provider VM was successfully created and is running.

## Next steps

[Add hosting servers](azure-stack-sql-resource-provider-hosting-servers.md)

Commit message:

Add version mapping to deploymeng and update doc

azure-stack/operator/azure-stack-sql-resource-provider-deploy.md, after:

---
title: Deploy SQL Server resource provider
titleSuffix: Azure Stack Hub
description: Learn how to deploy the SQL Server resource provider on Azure Stack Hub.
author: bryanla

ms.topic: article
ms.date: 10/02/2019
ms.lastreviewed: 03/18/2019
ms.author: bryanla
ms.reviewer: xiao

# Intent: As an Azure Stack operator, I want to deploy the SQL server resource provider.
# Keyword: deploy sql server resource provider azure stack

---


# Deploy the SQL Server resource provider on Azure Stack Hub

Use the Azure Stack Hub SQL Server resource provider to expose SQL databases as an Azure Stack Hub service. The SQL resource provider runs as a service on a Windows Server 2016 Server Core virtual machine (VM).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Only the resource provider is supported to create items on servers that host SQL or MySQL. Items created on a host server that aren't created by the resource provider might result in a mismatched state.

## Prerequisites

There are several prerequisites that need to be in place before you can deploy the Azure Stack Hub SQL resource provider. To meet these requirements, complete the following steps on a computer that can access the privileged endpoint VM:

- If you haven't already, [register Azure Stack Hub](azure-stack-registration.md) with Azure so you can download Azure Marketplace items.

- Add the required Windows Server core VM to Azure Stack Hub Marketplace by downloading the **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter - Server Core** image.

- Download the supported version of SQL resource provider binary according to the version mapping table below. Run the self-extractor to extract the downloaded contents to a temporary directory. 

  |Supported Azure Stack Hub version|SQL RP version|
  |-----|-----|
  |2005, 2002, 1910|[SQL RP version 1.1.47.0](https://aka.ms/azurestacksqlrp11470)|
  |1908|[SQL RP version 1.1.33.0](https://aka.ms/azurestacksqlrp11330)| 
  |     |     |

- Ensure datacenter integration prerequisites are met:

    |Prerequisite|Reference|
    |-----|-----|
    |Conditional DNS forwarding is set correctly.|[Azure Stack Hub datacenter integration - DNS](azure-stack-integrate-dns.md)|
    |Inbound ports for resource providers are open.|[Azure Stack Hub datacenter integration - Ports and protocols inbound](azure-stack-integrate-endpoints.md#ports-and-protocols-inbound)|
    |PKI certificate subject and SAN are set correctly.|[Azure Stack Hub deployment mandatory PKI prerequisites](azure-stack-pki-certs.md)<br>[Azure Stack Hub deployment PaaS certificate prerequisites](azure-stack-pki-certs.md)|
    |     |     |

In a disconnected scenario, complete the following steps to download the required PowerShell modules and register the repository manually.

1. Sign in to a computer with internet connectivity and use the following scripts to download the PowerShell modules.

```powershell
Import-Module -Name PowerShellGet -ErrorAction Stop
Import-Module -Name PackageManagement -ErrorAction Stop

# path to save the packages, c:\temp\azs1.6.0 as an example here
$Path = "c:\temp\azs1.6.0"
Save-Package -ProviderName NuGet -Source https://www.powershellgallery.com/api/v2 -Name AzureRM -Path $Path -Force -RequiredVersion 2.3.0
Save-Package -ProviderName NuGet -Source https://www.powershellgallery.com/api/v2 -Name AzureStack -Path $Path -Force -RequiredVersion 1.6.0
```

2. Then you copy the downloaded packages to a USB device.

3. Sign in to the disconnected workstation and copy the packages from the USB device to a location on the workstation.

4. Register this location as a local repository.

```powershell
# requires -Version 5
# requires -RunAsAdministrator
# requires -Module PowerShellGet
# requires -Module PackageManagement

$SourceLocation = "C:\temp\azs1.6.0"
$RepoName = "azs1.6.0"

Register-PSRepository -Name $RepoName -SourceLocation $SourceLocation -InstallationPolicy Trusted

New-Item -Path $env:ProgramFiles -name "SqlMySqlPsh" -ItemType "Directory"
```

### Certificates

_For integrated systems installations only_. You must provide the SQL PaaS PKI certificate described in the optional PaaS certificates section of [Azure Stack Hub deployment PKI requirements](./azure-stack-pki-certs.md). Place the .pfx file in the location specified by the **DependencyFilesLocalPath** parameter. Don't provide a certificate for ASDK systems.

## Deploy the SQL resource provider

After you've installed all the prerequisites, run the **DeploySqlProvider.ps1** script from a computer that can access both the Azure Stack Hub Admin Azure Resource Management Endpoint and Privileged Endpoint to deploy the SQL resource provider. The DeploySqlProvider.ps1 script is extracted as part of the SQL resource provider binary that you downloaded for your version of Azure Stack Hub.

 > [!IMPORTANT]
 > Before deploying the resource provider, review the release notes to learn about new functionality, fixes, and any known issues that could affect your deployment.

To deploy the SQL resource provider, open a **new** elevated PowerShell window (not PowerShell ISE) and change to the directory where you extracted the SQL resource provider binary files. We recommend using a new PowerShell window to avoid potential problems caused by PowerShell modules that are already loaded.

Run the DeploySqlProvider.ps1 script, which completes the following tasks:

- Uploads the certificates and other artifacts to a storage account on Azure Stack Hub.
- Publishes gallery packages so you can deploy SQL databases using the gallery.
- Publishes a gallery package for deploying hosting servers.
- Deploys a VM using the Windows Server 2016 core image you downloaded, and then installs the SQL resource provider.
- Registers a local DNS record that maps to your resource provider VM.
- Registers your resource provider with the local Azure Resource Manager for the operator account.

> [!NOTE]
> When the SQL resource provider deployment starts, the **system.local.sqladapter** resource group is created. It may take up to 75 minutes to finish the required deployments to this resource group. You should not place any other resources in the **system.local.sqladapter** resource group.

### DeploySqlProvider.ps1 parameters

You can specify the following parameters from the command line. If you don't, or if any parameter validation fails, you're prompted to provide the required parameters.

| Parameter name | Description | Comment or default value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **CloudAdminCredential** | The credential for the cloud admin, necessary for accessing the privileged endpoint. | _Required_ |
| **AzCredential** | The credentials for the Azure Stack Hub service admin account. Use the same credentials that you used for deploying Azure Stack Hub. The script will fail if the account you use with AzCredential requires multi-factor authentication (MFA).| _Required_ |
| **VMLocalCredential** | The credentials for the local admin account of the SQL resource provider VM. | _Required_ |
| **PrivilegedEndpoint** | The IP address or DNS name of the privileged endpoint. |  _Required_ |
| **AzureEnvironment** | The Azure environment of the service admin account used for deploying Azure Stack Hub. Required only for Azure AD deployments. Supported environment names are **AzureCloud**, **AzureUSGovernment**, or if using a China Azure Active Directory, **AzureChinaCloud**. | AzureCloud |
| **DependencyFilesLocalPath** | For integrated systems only, your certificate .pfx file must be placed in this directory. You can optionally copy one Windows Update MSU package here. | _Optional_ (_mandatory_ for integrated systems) |
| **DefaultSSLCertificatePassword** | The password for the .pfx certificate. | _Required_ |
| **MaxRetryCount** | The number of times you want to retry each operation if there's a failure.| 2 |
| **RetryDuration** | The timeout interval between retries, in seconds. | 120 |
| **Uninstall** | Removes the resource provider and all associated resources (see the following notes). | No |
| **DebugMode** | Prevents automatic cleanup on failure. | No |

## Deploy the SQL resource provider using a custom script

If you're deploying the SQL resource provider version 1.1.33.0 or previous versions, you need to install specific versions of AzureRm.BootStrapper and Azure Stack Hub modules in PowerShell. If you're deploying the SQL resource provider version 1.1.47.0, the deployment script will automatically download and install the necessary PowerShell modules for you to path C:\Program Files\SqlMySqlPsh.

```powershell
# Install the AzureRM.Bootstrapper module, set the profile, and install the AzureStack module
# Note that this might not be the most currently available version of Azure Stack Hub PowerShell
Install-Module -Name AzureRm.BootStrapper -RequiredVersion 0.5.0 -Force
Use-AzureRmProfile -Profile 2018-03-01-hybrid -Force
Install-Module -Name AzureStack -RequiredVersion 1.6.0
```

> [!NOTE]
> In disconnected scenario, you need to download the required PowerShell modules and register the repository manually as a prerequisite.

To eliminate any manual configuration when deploying the resource provider, you can customize the following script. Change the default account information and passwords as needed for your Azure Stack Hub deployment.

```powershell
# Use the NetBIOS name for the Azure Stack Hub domain. On the Azure Stack Hub SDK, the default is AzureStack but could have been changed at install time.
$domain = "AzureStack"

# For integrated systems, use the IP address of one of the ERCS VMs
$privilegedEndpoint = "AzS-ERCS01"

# Provide the Azure environment used for deploying Azure Stack Hub. Required only for Azure AD deployments. Supported values for the <environment name> parameter are AzureCloud, AzureChinaCloud, or AzureUSGovernment depending which Azure subscription you're using.
$AzureEnvironment = "<EnvironmentName>"

# Point to the directory where the resource provider installation files were extracted.
$tempDir = 'C:\TEMP\SQLRP'

# The service admin account can be Azure Active Directory or Active Directory Federation Services.
$serviceAdmin = "admin@mydomain.onmicrosoft.com"
$AdminPass = ConvertTo-SecureString 'P@ssw0rd1' -AsPlainText -Force
$AdminCreds = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential ($serviceAdmin, $AdminPass)

# Set credentials for the new resource provider VM local admin account.
$vmLocalAdminPass = ConvertTo-SecureString 'P@ssw0rd1' -AsPlainText -Force
$vmLocalAdminCreds = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential ("sqlrpadmin", $vmLocalAdminPass)

# Add the cloudadmin credential that's required for privileged endpoint access.
$CloudAdminPass = ConvertTo-SecureString 'P@ssw0rd1' -AsPlainText -Force
$CloudAdminCreds = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential ("$domain\cloudadmin", $CloudAdminPass)

# Change the following as appropriate.
$PfxPass = ConvertTo-SecureString 'P@ssw0rd1' -AsPlainText -Force

# For version 1.1.47.0, the PowerShell modules used by the RP deployment are placed in C:\Program Files\SqlMySqlPsh
# The deployment script adds this path to the system $env:PSModulePath to ensure correct modules are used.
$rpModulePath = Join-Path -Path $env:ProgramFiles -ChildPath 'SqlMySqlPsh'
$env:PSModulePath = $env:PSModulePath + ";" + $rpModulePath 

# Change to the directory folder where you extracted the installation files. Don't provide a certificate on ASDK!
. $tempDir\DeploySQLProvider.ps1 `
    -AzCredential $AdminCreds `
    -VMLocalCredential $vmLocalAdminCreds `
    -CloudAdminCredential $cloudAdminCreds `
    -PrivilegedEndpoint $privilegedEndpoint `
    -AzureEnvironment $AzureEnvironment `
    -DefaultSSLCertificatePassword $PfxPass `
    -DependencyFilesLocalPath $tempDir\cert

 ```

When the resource provider installation script finishes, refresh your browser to make sure you can see the latest updates and close the current PowerShell session.

## Verify the deployment using the Azure Stack Hub portal

You can use the following steps verify that the SQL resource provider is successfully deployed.

1. Sign in to the administrator portal as the service admin.
2. Select **Resource Groups**.
3. Select the **system.\<location\>.sqladapter** resource group.
4. On the summary page for Resource group Overview, there should be no failed deployments.

    ![Verify deployment of the SQL resource provider in Azure Stack Hub administrator portal](./media/azure-stack-sql-rp-deploy/sqlrp-verify.png)

5. Finally, select **Virtual machines** in the administrator portal to verify that the SQL resource provider VM was successfully created and is running.

## Next steps

[Add hosting servers](azure-stack-sql-resource-provider-hosting-servers.md)
