azure-stack/operator/azure-stack-usage-related-faq.md, before:

---
title: Usage API related FAQs | Microsoft Docs
description: List of Azure Stack meters, comparison to Azure usage API, Usage Time and Reported Time, error codes.
services: azure-stack
documentationcenter: ''
author: sethmanheim
manager: femila
editor: ''

ms.service: azure-stack
ms.workload: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/31/2019
ms.author: sethm
ms.reviewer: alfredop
ms.lastreviewed: 02/26/2019

---

# Frequently asked questions in Azure Stack usage API

This article answers some frequently asked questions about the Azure Stack usage API.

## What meter IDs can I see?

Usage is reported for the following resource providers:

### Network
  
**Meter ID**: F271A8A388C44D93956A063E1D2FA80B  
**Meter name**: Static IP Address Usage  
**Unit**: IP addresses  
**Notes**: Count of IP addresses used. If you call the usage API with a daily granularity, the meter returns IP address multiplied by the number of hours.  
  
**Meter ID**: 9E2739BA86744796B465F64674B822BA  
**Meter name**: Dynamic IP Address Usage  
**Unit**: IP addresses  
**Notes**: Count of IP addresses used. If you call the usage API with a daily granularity, the meter returns IP address multiplied by the number of hours.  
  
### Storage
  
**Meter ID**: B4438D5D-453B-4EE1-B42A-DC72E377F1E4  
**Meter name**: TableCapacity  
**Unit**: GB\*hours  
**Notes**: Total capacity consumed by tables.  
  
**Meter ID**: B5C15376-6C94-4FDD-B655-1A69D138ACA3  
**Meter name**: PageBlobCapacity  
**Unit**: GB\*hours  
**Notes**: Total capacity consumed by page blobs.  
  
**Meter ID**: B03C6AE7-B080-4BFA-84A3-22C800F315C6  
**Meter name**: QueueCapacity  
**Unit**: GB\*hours  
**Notes**: Total capacity consumed by queue.  
  
**Meter ID**: 09F8879E-87E9-4305-A572-4B7BE209F857  
**Meter name**: BlockBlobCapacity  
**Unit**: GB\*hours  
**Notes**: Total capacity consumed by block blobs.  
  
**Meter ID**: B9FF3CD0-28AA-4762-84BB-FF8FBAEA6A90  
**Meter name**: TableTransactions  
**Unit**: Request count in 10,000's  
**Notes**: Table service requests (in 10,000s).  
  
**Meter ID**: 50A1AEAF-8ECA-48A0-8973-A5B3077FEE0D  
**Meter name**: TableDataTransIn  
**Unit**: Ingress data in GB  
**Notes**: Table service data ingress in GB.  
  
**Meter ID**: 1B8C1DEC-EE42-414B-AA36-6229CF199370  
**Meter name**: TableDataTransOut  
**Unit**: Egress in GB  
**Notes**: Table service data egress in GB.
  
**Meter ID**: 43DAF82B-4618-444A-B994-40C23F7CD438  
**Meter name**: BlobTransactions  
**Unit**: Requests count in 10,000's  
**Notes**: Blob service requests (in 10,000s).  
  
**Meter ID**: 9764F92C-E44A-498E-8DC1-AAD66587A810  
**Meter name**: BlobDataTransIn  
**Unit**: Ingress data in GB  
**Notes**: Blob service data ingress in GB.  
  
**Meter ID**: 3023FEF4-ECA5-4D7B-87B3-CFBC061931E8  
**Meter name**: BlobDataTransOut  
**Unit**: Egress in GB  
**Notes**: Blob service data egress in GB.  
  
**Meter ID**: EB43DD12-1AA6-4C4B-872C-FAF15A6785EA  
**Meter name**: QueueTransactions  
**Unit**: Requests count in 10,000's  
**Notes**: Queue service requests (in 10,000s).  
  
**Meter ID**: E518E809-E369-4A45-9274-2017B29FFF25  
**Meter name**: QueueDataTransIn  
**Unit**: Ingress data in GB  
**Notes**: Queue service data ingress in GB.  
  
**Meter ID**: DD0A10BA-A5D6-4CB6-88C0-7D585CEF9FC2  
**Meter name**: QueueDataTransOut  
**Unit**: Egress in GB  
**Notes**: Queue service data egress in GB  

### Compute
  
**Meter ID**: FAB6EB84-500B-4A09-A8CA-7358F8BBAEA5  
**Meter name**: Base VM Size Hours  
**Unit**: Virtual core hours  
**Notes**: Number of virtual cores multiplied by the hours the VM ran.  
  
**Meter ID**: 9CD92D4C-BAFD-4492-B278-BEDC2DE8232A  
**Meter name**: Windows VM Size Hours  
**Unit**: Virtual core hours  
**Notes**: Number of virtual cores multiplied by hours the VM ran.  
  
**Meter ID**: 6DAB500F-A4FD-49C4-956D-229BB9C8C793  
**Meter name**: VM size hours  
**Unit**: VM hours  
**Notes**: Captures both base and Windows VM. Does not adjust for cores.  
  
### Managed Disks

**Meter ID**: 380874f9-300c-48e0-95a0-d2d9a21ade8f   
**Meter name**: S4   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 32 GB 

**Meter ID**: 1b77d90f-427b-4435-b4f1-d78adec53222   
**Meter name**: S6   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 64 GB 

**Meter ID**: d5f7731b-f639-404a-89d0-e46186e22c8d   
**Meter name**: S10   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 128 GB 

**Meter ID**: ff85ef31-da5b-4eac-95dd-a69d6f97b18a   
**Meter name**: S15   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 256 GB 

**Meter ID**: 88ea9228-457a-4091-adc9-ad5194f30b6e   
**Meter name**: S20   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month      
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 512 GB 

**Meter ID**: 5b1db88a-8596-4002-8052-347947c26940   
**Meter name**: S30   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 1024 GB 

**Meter ID**: 7660b45b-b29d-49cb-b816-59f30fbab011   
**Meter name**: P4   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 32 GB 

**Meter ID**: 817007fd-a077-477f-bc01-b876f27205fd   
**Meter name**: P6   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 64 GB 

**Meter ID**: e554b6bc-96cd-4938-a5b5-0da990278519   
**Meter name**: P10   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 128 GB  

**Meter ID**: cdc0f53a-62a9-4472-a06c-e99a23b02907   
**Meter name**: P15  
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 256 GB 

**Meter ID**: b9cb2d1a-84c2-4275-aa8b-70d2145d59aa   
**Meter name**: P20   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 512 GB 

**Meter ID**: 06bde724-9f94-43c0-84c3-d0fc54538369   
**Meter name**: P30   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 1024 GB 

**Meter ID**: 7ba084ec-ef9c-4d64-a179-7732c6cb5e28   
**Meter name**: ActualStandardDiskSize   
**Unit**: GB\*month      
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of standard managed disk  

**Meter ID**: daef389a-06e5-4684-a7f7-8813d9f792d5  
**Meter name**: ActualPremiumDiskSize   
**Unit**: GB\*month      
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of premium managed disk 

**Meter ID**: 108fa95b-be0d-4cd9-96e8-5b0d59505df1  
**Meter name**: ActualStandardSnapshotSize   
**Unit**: GB\*month   
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of managed standard snapshot.  

**Meter ID**: 578ae51d-4ef9-42f9-85ae-42b52d3d83ac   
**Meter name**: ActualPremiumSnapshotSize   
**Unit**: GB\*month   
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of managed premium snapshot.   

**Meter ID**: 5d76e09f-4567-452a-94cc-7d1f097761f0   
**Meter name**: S4   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 32 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: dc9fc6a9-0782-432a-b8dc-978130457494   
**Meter name**: S6   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 64 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: e5572fce-9f58-49d7-840c-b168c0f01fff   
**Meter name**: S10   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 128 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 9a8caedd-1195-4cd5-80b4-a4c22f9302b8   
**Meter name**: S15   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 256 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 5938f8da-0ecd-4c48-8d5a-c7c6c23546be   
**Meter name**: S20   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours      
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 512 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 7705a158-bd8b-4b2b-b4c2-0782343b81e6   
**Meter name**: S30   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 1024 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 5c105f5f-cbdf-435c-b49b-3c7174856dcc   
**Meter name**: P4   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 32 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 518b412b-1927-4f25-985f-4aea24e55c4f   
**Meter name**: P6   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 64 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 5cfb1fed-0902-49e3-8217-9add946fd624   
**Meter name**: P10   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 128 GB (Deprecated)  

**Meter ID**: 8de91c94-f740-4d9a-b665-bd5974fa08d4   
**Meter name**: P15  
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 256 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: c7e7839c-293b-4761-ae4c-848eda91130b   
**Meter name**: P20   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 512 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 9f502103-adf4-4488-b494-456c95d23a9f   
**Meter name**: P30   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 1024 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 8a409390-1913-40ae-917b-08d0f16f3c38   
**Meter name**: ActualStandardDiskSize   
**Unit**: Byte\*hours      
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of standard managed disk (Deprecated)  

**Meter ID**: 1273b16f-8458-4c34-8ce2-a515de551ef6  
**Meter name**: ActualPremiumDiskSize   
**Unit**: Byte\*hours      
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of premium managed disk (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 89009682-df7f-44fe-aeb1-63fba3ddbf4c  
**Meter name**: ActualStandardSnapshotSize   
**Unit**: Byte\*hours   
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of managed standard snapshot (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 95b0c03f-8a82-4524-8961-ccfbf575f536   
**Meter name**: ActualPremiumSnapshotSize   
**Unit**: Byte\*hours   
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of managed premium snapshot (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 75d4b707-1027-4403-9986-6ec7c05579c8
**Meter name**: ActualStandardSnapshotSize
**Unit**: GB\*month
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of managed standard snapshot (Deprecated)  

**Meter ID**: 5ca1cbb9-6f14-4e76-8be8-1ca91547965e
**Meter name**: ActualPremiumSnapshotSize
**Unit**: GB\*month
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of managed premium snapshot (Deprecated)  

### Sql RP
  
**Meter ID**: CBCFEF9A-B91F-4597-A4D3-01FE334BED82  
**Meter name**: DatabaseSizeHourSqlMeter  
**Unit**: MB\*hours  
**Notes**: Total DB capacity at creation. If you call the usage API with a daily granularity, the meter returns MB multiplied by the number of hours.  
  
### MySql RP   
  
**Meter ID**: E6D8CFCD-7734-495E-B1CC-5AB0B9C24BD3  
**Meter name**: DatabaseSizeHourMySqlMeter  
**Unit**: MB\*hours  
**Notes**: Total DB capacity at creation. If you call the usage API with a daily granularity, the meter returns MB multiplied by the number of hours.    
### Key Vault   
  
**Meter ID**: EBF13B9F-B3EA-46FE-BF54-396E93D48AB4  
**Meter name**: Key Vault transactions  
**Unit**: Request count in 10,000's  
**Notes**: Number of REST API requests received by Key Vault data plane.  
  
**Meter ID**: 2C354225-B2FE-42E5-AD89-14F0EA302C87  
**Meter name**: Advanced keys transactions  
**Unit**:  10K transactions  
**Notes**: RSA 3K/4K, ECC key transactions. (preview).  
  
### App service   
  
**Meter ID**: 190C935E-9ADA-48FF-9AB8-56EA1CF9ADAA  
**Meter name**: App Service  
**Unit**: Virtual core hours  
**Notes**: Number of virtual cores used to run app service. Note: Microsoft uses this meter to charge the App Service on Azure Stack. Cloud Service Providers can use the other App Service meters (below) to calculate usage for their tenants.  
  
**Meter ID**: 67CC4AFC-0691-48E1-A4B8-D744D1FEDBDE  
**Meter name**: Functions Requests  
**Unit**: 10 Requests  
**Notes**: Total number of requested executions (per 10 executions). Executions are counted each time a function runs in response to an event, or is triggered by a binding.  
  
**Meter ID**: D1D04836-075C-4F27-BF65-0A1130EC60ED  
**Meter name**: Functions - Compute  
**Unit**:  GB-s  
**Notes**:  Resource consumption measured in gigabyte seconds (GB/s). **Observed resource consumption** is calculated by multiplying average memory size in GB by the time in milliseconds it takes to execute the function. Memory used by a function is measured by rounding up to the nearest 128 MB, up to the maximum memory size of 1,536 MB, with execution time calculated by rounding up to the nearest 1 ms. The minimum execution time and memory for a single function execution is 100 ms and 128 mb respectively.  
  
**Meter ID**: 957E9F36-2C14-45A1-B6A1-1723EF71A01D  
**Meter name**: Shared App Service Hours  
**Unit**: 1 hour  
**Notes**: Per hour usage of shard App Service Plan. Plans are metered on a per App basis.  
  
**Meter ID**: 539CDEC7-B4F5-49F6-AAC4-1F15CFF0EDA9  
**Meter name**: Free App Service Hours  
**Unit**: 1 hour  
**Notes**: Per hour usage of free App Service Plan. Plans are metered on a per App basis.  
  
**Meter ID**: 88039D51-A206-3A89-E9DE-C5117E2D10A6  
**Meter name**: Small Standard App Service Hours  
**Unit**: 1 hour  
**Notes**: Calculated based on size and number of instances.  
  
**Meter ID**: 83A2A13E-4788-78DD-5D55-2831B68ED825  
**Meter name**: Medium Standard App Service Hours  
**Unit**: 1 hour  
**Notes**: Calculated based on size and number of instances.  
  
**Meter ID**: 1083B9DB-E9BB-24BE-A5E9-D6FDD0DDEFE6  
**Meter name**: Large Standard App Service Hours  
**Unit**: 1 hour  
**Notes**: Calculated based on size and number of instances.  
  
### Custom Worker Tiers   
  
**Meter ID**: *Custom Worker Tiers*  
**Meter name**: Custom Worker Tiers  
**Unit**: Hours  
**Notes**: Deterministic meter ID is created based on SKU and custom worker tier name. This meter ID is unique for each custom worker tier.  
  
**Meter ID**: 264ACB47-AD38-47F8-ADD3-47F01DC4F473  
**Meter name**: SNI SSL  
**Unit**: Per SNI SSL Binding  
**Notes**: App Service supports two types of SSL connections: Server Name Indication (SNI) SSL Connections and IP Address SSL Connections. SNI-based SSL works on modern browsers while IP-based SSL works on all browsers.  
  
**Meter ID**: 60B42D72-DC1C-472C-9895-6C516277EDB4  
**Meter name**: IP SSL  
**Unit**: Per IP Based SSL Binding  
**Notes**: App Service supports two types of SSL connections: Server Name Indication (SNI) SSL Connections and IP Address SSL Connections. SNI-based SSL works on modern browsers while IP-based SSL works on all browsers.  
  
**Meter ID**: 73215A6C-FA54-4284-B9C1-7E8EC871CC5B  
**Meter name**:  Web Process  
**Unit**:  
**Notes**: Calculated per active site per hour.  
  
**Meter ID**: 5887D39B-0253-4E12-83C7-03E1A93DFFD9  
**Meter name**: External Egress Bandwidth  
**Unit**: GB  
**Notes**: Total incoming request response bytes + total outgoing request bytes + total incoming FTP request response bytes + total incoming web deploy request response bytes.  
  
## How do the Azure Stack usage APIs compare to the [Azure usage API](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/billing/billing-usage-rate-card-overview#azure-resource-usage-api-preview) (currently in public preview)?

* The tenant usage API is consistent with the Azure API, with one
  exception: the *showDetails* flag currently is not supported in
  Azure Stack.
* The provider usage API applies only to Azure Stack.
* Currently, the [RateCard
  API](/azure/billing/billing-usage-rate-card-overview#azure-resource-ratecard-api-preview)
  that is available in Azure is not available in Azure Stack.

## What is the difference between usage time and reported time?

Usage data reports have two main time values:

* **Reported Time**. The time when the usage event entered the usage
  system
* **Usage Time**. The time when the Azure Stack resource was consumed

You might see a discrepancy in values for usage time and reported time for a specific usage event. The delay can be as long as several hours in any environment.

Currently, you can query only by *Reported Time*.

## What do these usage API error codes mean?

| **HTTP status code** | **Error code** | **Description** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 400/Bad Request |*NoApiVersion* |The *api-version* query parameter is missing. |
| 400/Bad Request |*InvalidProperty* |A property is missing or has an invalid value. The message in the error code in the response body identifies the missing property. |
| 400/Bad Request |*RequestEndTimeIsInFuture* |The value for *ReportedEndTime* is in the future. Values in the future are not allowed for this argument. |
| 400/Bad Request |*SubscriberIdIsNotDirectTenant* |A provider API call has used a subscription ID that is not a valid tenant of the caller. |
| 400/Bad Request |*SubscriptionIdMissingInRequest* |The subscription ID of the caller is missing. |
| 400/Bad Request |*InvalidAggregationGranularity* |An invalid aggregation granularity was requested. Valid values are daily and hourly. |
| 503 |*ServiceUnavailable* |A retryable error occurred because the service is busy or the call is being throttled. |

## What is the policy for charging for VMs?

Running and stopped VMs generate usage data. Consistent with Azure, deallocation is needed to stop the emission of usage data. In the case in which the portal is unavailable, but the compute resource provider is still running, usage will be emitted.

## Next steps

* [Customer billing and chargeback in Azure Stack](azure-stack-billing-and-chargeback.md)
* [Provider Resource Usage API](azure-stack-provider-resource-api.md)
* [Tenant Resource Usage API](azure-stack-tenant-resource-usage-api.md)

Commit message:

Adding questions to the usage FAQ

azure-stack/operator/azure-stack-usage-related-faq.md, after:

---
title: Usage API related FAQs | Microsoft Docs
description: List of Azure Stack meters, comparison to Azure usage API, Usage Time and Reported Time, error codes.
services: azure-stack
documentationcenter: ''
author: sethmanheim
manager: femila
editor: ''

ms.service: azure-stack
ms.workload: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 09/24/2019
ms.author: sethm
ms.reviewer: alfredop
ms.lastreviewed: 02/26/2019

---

# Frequently asked questions in Azure Stack usage API

This article answers some frequently asked questions about the Azure Stack usage API.

## What meter IDs can I see?

Usage is reported for the following resource providers:

### Network
  
**Meter ID**: F271A8A388C44D93956A063E1D2FA80B  
**Meter name**: Static IP Address Usage  
**Unit**: IP addresses  
**Notes**: Count of IP addresses used. If you call the usage API with a daily granularity, the meter returns IP address multiplied by the number of hours.  
  
**Meter ID**: 9E2739BA86744796B465F64674B822BA  
**Meter name**: Dynamic IP Address Usage  
**Unit**: IP addresses  
**Notes**: Count of IP addresses used. If you call the usage API with a daily granularity, the meter returns IP address multiplied by the number of hours.  
  
### Storage
  
**Meter ID**: B4438D5D-453B-4EE1-B42A-DC72E377F1E4  
**Meter name**: TableCapacity  
**Unit**: GB\*hours  
**Notes**: Total capacity consumed by tables.  
  
**Meter ID**: B5C15376-6C94-4FDD-B655-1A69D138ACA3  
**Meter name**: PageBlobCapacity  
**Unit**: GB\*hours  
**Notes**: Total capacity consumed by page blobs.  
  
**Meter ID**: B03C6AE7-B080-4BFA-84A3-22C800F315C6  
**Meter name**: QueueCapacity  
**Unit**: GB\*hours  
**Notes**: Total capacity consumed by queue.  
  
**Meter ID**: 09F8879E-87E9-4305-A572-4B7BE209F857  
**Meter name**: BlockBlobCapacity  
**Unit**: GB\*hours  
**Notes**: Total capacity consumed by block blobs.  
  
**Meter ID**: B9FF3CD0-28AA-4762-84BB-FF8FBAEA6A90  
**Meter name**: TableTransactions  
**Unit**: Request count in 10,000's  
**Notes**: Table service requests (in 10,000s).  
  
**Meter ID**: 50A1AEAF-8ECA-48A0-8973-A5B3077FEE0D  
**Meter name**: TableDataTransIn  
**Unit**: Ingress data in GB  
**Notes**: Table service data ingress in GB.  
  
**Meter ID**: 1B8C1DEC-EE42-414B-AA36-6229CF199370  
**Meter name**: TableDataTransOut  
**Unit**: Egress in GB  
**Notes**: Table service data egress in GB.
  
**Meter ID**: 43DAF82B-4618-444A-B994-40C23F7CD438  
**Meter name**: BlobTransactions  
**Unit**: Requests count in 10,000's  
**Notes**: Blob service requests (in 10,000s).  
  
**Meter ID**: 9764F92C-E44A-498E-8DC1-AAD66587A810  
**Meter name**: BlobDataTransIn  
**Unit**: Ingress data in GB  
**Notes**: Blob service data ingress in GB.  
  
**Meter ID**: 3023FEF4-ECA5-4D7B-87B3-CFBC061931E8  
**Meter name**: BlobDataTransOut  
**Unit**: Egress in GB  
**Notes**: Blob service data egress in GB.  
  
**Meter ID**: EB43DD12-1AA6-4C4B-872C-FAF15A6785EA  
**Meter name**: QueueTransactions  
**Unit**: Requests count in 10,000's  
**Notes**: Queue service requests (in 10,000s).  
  
**Meter ID**: E518E809-E369-4A45-9274-2017B29FFF25  
**Meter name**: QueueDataTransIn  
**Unit**: Ingress data in GB  
**Notes**: Queue service data ingress in GB.  
  
**Meter ID**: DD0A10BA-A5D6-4CB6-88C0-7D585CEF9FC2  
**Meter name**: QueueDataTransOut  
**Unit**: Egress in GB  
**Notes**: Queue service data egress in GB  

### Compute
  
**Meter ID**: FAB6EB84-500B-4A09-A8CA-7358F8BBAEA5  
**Meter name**: Base VM Size Hours  
**Unit**: Virtual core hours  
**Notes**: Number of virtual cores multiplied by the hours the VM ran.  
  
**Meter ID**: 9CD92D4C-BAFD-4492-B278-BEDC2DE8232A  
**Meter name**: Windows VM Size Hours  
**Unit**: Virtual core hours  
**Notes**: Number of virtual cores multiplied by hours the VM ran.  
  
**Meter ID**: 6DAB500F-A4FD-49C4-956D-229BB9C8C793  
**Meter name**: VM size hours  
**Unit**: VM hours  
**Notes**: Captures both base and Windows VM. Does not adjust for cores.  
  
### Managed Disks

**Meter ID**: 380874f9-300c-48e0-95a0-d2d9a21ade8f   
**Meter name**: S4   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 32 GB 

**Meter ID**: 1b77d90f-427b-4435-b4f1-d78adec53222   
**Meter name**: S6   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 64 GB 

**Meter ID**: d5f7731b-f639-404a-89d0-e46186e22c8d   
**Meter name**: S10   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 128 GB 

**Meter ID**: ff85ef31-da5b-4eac-95dd-a69d6f97b18a   
**Meter name**: S15   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 256 GB 

**Meter ID**: 88ea9228-457a-4091-adc9-ad5194f30b6e   
**Meter name**: S20   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month      
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 512 GB 

**Meter ID**: 5b1db88a-8596-4002-8052-347947c26940   
**Meter name**: S30   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 1024 GB 

**Meter ID**: 7660b45b-b29d-49cb-b816-59f30fbab011   
**Meter name**: P4   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 32 GB 

**Meter ID**: 817007fd-a077-477f-bc01-b876f27205fd   
**Meter name**: P6   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 64 GB 

**Meter ID**: e554b6bc-96cd-4938-a5b5-0da990278519   
**Meter name**: P10   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 128 GB  

**Meter ID**: cdc0f53a-62a9-4472-a06c-e99a23b02907   
**Meter name**: P15  
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 256 GB 

**Meter ID**: b9cb2d1a-84c2-4275-aa8b-70d2145d59aa   
**Meter name**: P20   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 512 GB 

**Meter ID**: 06bde724-9f94-43c0-84c3-d0fc54538369   
**Meter name**: P30   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*month   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 1024 GB 

**Meter ID**: 7ba084ec-ef9c-4d64-a179-7732c6cb5e28   
**Meter name**: ActualStandardDiskSize   
**Unit**: GB\*month      
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of standard managed disk  

**Meter ID**: daef389a-06e5-4684-a7f7-8813d9f792d5  
**Meter name**: ActualPremiumDiskSize   
**Unit**: GB\*month      
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of premium managed disk 

**Meter ID**: 108fa95b-be0d-4cd9-96e8-5b0d59505df1  
**Meter name**: ActualStandardSnapshotSize   
**Unit**: GB\*month   
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of managed standard snapshot.  

**Meter ID**: 578ae51d-4ef9-42f9-85ae-42b52d3d83ac   
**Meter name**: ActualPremiumSnapshotSize   
**Unit**: GB\*month   
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of managed premium snapshot.   

**Meter ID**: 5d76e09f-4567-452a-94cc-7d1f097761f0   
**Meter name**: S4   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 32 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: dc9fc6a9-0782-432a-b8dc-978130457494   
**Meter name**: S6   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 64 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: e5572fce-9f58-49d7-840c-b168c0f01fff   
**Meter name**: S10   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 128 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 9a8caedd-1195-4cd5-80b4-a4c22f9302b8   
**Meter name**: S15   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 256 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 5938f8da-0ecd-4c48-8d5a-c7c6c23546be   
**Meter name**: S20   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours      
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 512 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 7705a158-bd8b-4b2b-b4c2-0782343b81e6   
**Meter name**: S30   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Standard Managed Disk - 1024 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 5c105f5f-cbdf-435c-b49b-3c7174856dcc   
**Meter name**: P4   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 32 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 518b412b-1927-4f25-985f-4aea24e55c4f   
**Meter name**: P6   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 64 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 5cfb1fed-0902-49e3-8217-9add946fd624   
**Meter name**: P10   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 128 GB (Deprecated)  

**Meter ID**: 8de91c94-f740-4d9a-b665-bd5974fa08d4   
**Meter name**: P15  
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 256 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: c7e7839c-293b-4761-ae4c-848eda91130b   
**Meter name**: P20   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 512 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 9f502103-adf4-4488-b494-456c95d23a9f   
**Meter name**: P30   
**Unit**: Count of Disks\*hours   
**Notes**: Premium Managed Disk - 1024 GB (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 8a409390-1913-40ae-917b-08d0f16f3c38   
**Meter name**: ActualStandardDiskSize   
**Unit**: Byte\*hours      
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of standard managed disk (Deprecated)  

**Meter ID**: 1273b16f-8458-4c34-8ce2-a515de551ef6  
**Meter name**: ActualPremiumDiskSize   
**Unit**: Byte\*hours      
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of premium managed disk (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 89009682-df7f-44fe-aeb1-63fba3ddbf4c  
**Meter name**: ActualStandardSnapshotSize   
**Unit**: Byte\*hours   
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of managed standard snapshot (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 95b0c03f-8a82-4524-8961-ccfbf575f536   
**Meter name**: ActualPremiumSnapshotSize   
**Unit**: Byte\*hours   
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of managed premium snapshot (Deprecated) 

**Meter ID**: 75d4b707-1027-4403-9986-6ec7c05579c8
**Meter name**: ActualStandardSnapshotSize
**Unit**: GB\*month
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of managed standard snapshot (Deprecated)  

**Meter ID**: 5ca1cbb9-6f14-4e76-8be8-1ca91547965e
**Meter name**: ActualPremiumSnapshotSize
**Unit**: GB\*month
**Notes**: The actual size on disk of managed premium snapshot (Deprecated)  

### Sql RP
  
**Meter ID**: CBCFEF9A-B91F-4597-A4D3-01FE334BED82  
**Meter name**: DatabaseSizeHourSqlMeter  
**Unit**: MB\*hours  
**Notes**: Total DB capacity at creation. If you call the usage API with a daily granularity, the meter returns MB multiplied by the number of hours.  
  
### MySql RP   
  
**Meter ID**: E6D8CFCD-7734-495E-B1CC-5AB0B9C24BD3  
**Meter name**: DatabaseSizeHourMySqlMeter  
**Unit**: MB\*hours  
**Notes**: Total DB capacity at creation. If you call the usage API with a daily granularity, the meter returns MB multiplied by the number of hours.    
### Key Vault   
  
**Meter ID**: EBF13B9F-B3EA-46FE-BF54-396E93D48AB4  
**Meter name**: Key Vault transactions  
**Unit**: Request count in 10,000's  
**Notes**: Number of REST API requests received by Key Vault data plane.  
  
**Meter ID**: 2C354225-B2FE-42E5-AD89-14F0EA302C87  
**Meter name**: Advanced keys transactions  
**Unit**:  10K transactions  
**Notes**: RSA 3K/4K, ECC key transactions. (preview).  
  
### App service   
  
**Meter ID**: 190C935E-9ADA-48FF-9AB8-56EA1CF9ADAA  
**Meter name**: App Service  
**Unit**: Virtual core hours  
**Notes**: Number of virtual cores used to run app service. Note: Microsoft uses this meter to charge the App Service on Azure Stack. Cloud Service Providers can use the other App Service meters (below) to calculate usage for their tenants.  
  
**Meter ID**: 67CC4AFC-0691-48E1-A4B8-D744D1FEDBDE  
**Meter name**: Functions Requests  
**Unit**: 10 Requests  
**Notes**: Total number of requested executions (per 10 executions). Executions are counted each time a function runs in response to an event, or is triggered by a binding.  
  
**Meter ID**: D1D04836-075C-4F27-BF65-0A1130EC60ED  
**Meter name**: Functions - Compute  
**Unit**:  GB-s  
**Notes**:  Resource consumption measured in gigabyte seconds (GB/s). **Observed resource consumption** is calculated by multiplying average memory size in GB by the time in milliseconds it takes to execute the function. Memory used by a function is measured by rounding up to the nearest 128 MB, up to the maximum memory size of 1,536 MB, with execution time calculated by rounding up to the nearest 1 ms. The minimum execution time and memory for a single function execution is 100 ms and 128 mb respectively.  
  
**Meter ID**: 957E9F36-2C14-45A1-B6A1-1723EF71A01D  
**Meter name**: Shared App Service Hours  
**Unit**: 1 hour  
**Notes**: Per hour usage of shard App Service Plan. Plans are metered on a per App basis.  
  
**Meter ID**: 539CDEC7-B4F5-49F6-AAC4-1F15CFF0EDA9  
**Meter name**: Free App Service Hours  
**Unit**: 1 hour  
**Notes**: Per hour usage of free App Service Plan. Plans are metered on a per App basis.  
  
**Meter ID**: 88039D51-A206-3A89-E9DE-C5117E2D10A6  
**Meter name**: Small Standard App Service Hours  
**Unit**: 1 hour  
**Notes**: Calculated based on size and number of instances.  
  
**Meter ID**: 83A2A13E-4788-78DD-5D55-2831B68ED825  
**Meter name**: Medium Standard App Service Hours  
**Unit**: 1 hour  
**Notes**: Calculated based on size and number of instances.  
  
**Meter ID**: 1083B9DB-E9BB-24BE-A5E9-D6FDD0DDEFE6  
**Meter name**: Large Standard App Service Hours  
**Unit**: 1 hour  
**Notes**: Calculated based on size and number of instances.  
  
### Custom Worker Tiers   
  
**Meter ID**: *Custom Worker Tiers*  
**Meter name**: Custom Worker Tiers  
**Unit**: Hours  
**Notes**: Deterministic meter ID is created based on SKU and custom worker tier name. This meter ID is unique for each custom worker tier.  
  
**Meter ID**: 264ACB47-AD38-47F8-ADD3-47F01DC4F473  
**Meter name**: SNI SSL  
**Unit**: Per SNI SSL Binding  
**Notes**: App Service supports two types of SSL connections: Server Name Indication (SNI) SSL Connections and IP Address SSL Connections. SNI-based SSL works on modern browsers while IP-based SSL works on all browsers.  
  
**Meter ID**: 60B42D72-DC1C-472C-9895-6C516277EDB4  
**Meter name**: IP SSL  
**Unit**: Per IP Based SSL Binding  
**Notes**: App Service supports two types of SSL connections: Server Name Indication (SNI) SSL Connections and IP Address SSL Connections. SNI-based SSL works on modern browsers while IP-based SSL works on all browsers.  
  
**Meter ID**: 73215A6C-FA54-4284-B9C1-7E8EC871CC5B  
**Meter name**:  Web Process  
**Unit**:  
**Notes**: Calculated per active site per hour.  
  
**Meter ID**: 5887D39B-0253-4E12-83C7-03E1A93DFFD9  
**Meter name**: External Egress Bandwidth  
**Unit**: GB  
**Notes**: Total incoming request response bytes + total outgoing request bytes + total incoming FTP request response bytes + total incoming web deploy request response bytes.  
  
## How do the Azure Stack usage APIs compare to the [Azure usage API](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/billing/billing-usage-rate-card-overview#azure-resource-usage-api-preview) (currently in public preview)?

* The tenant usage API is consistent with the Azure API, with one
  exception: the *showDetails* flag currently is not supported in
  Azure Stack.
* The provider usage API applies only to Azure Stack.
* Currently, the [RateCard
  API](/azure/billing/billing-usage-rate-card-overview#azure-resource-ratecard-api-preview)
  that is available in Azure is not available in Azure Stack.

## What is the difference between usage time and reported time?

Usage data reports have two main time values:

* **Reported Time**. The time when the usage event entered the usage
  system
* **Usage Time**. The time when the Azure Stack resource was consumed

You might see a discrepancy in values for usage time and reported time for a specific usage event. The delay can be as long as several hours in any environment.

Currently, you can query only by *Reported Time*.

## What do these usage API error codes mean?

| **HTTP status code** | **Error code** | **Description** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 400/Bad Request |*NoApiVersion* |The *api-version* query parameter is missing. |
| 400/Bad Request |*InvalidProperty* |A property is missing or has an invalid value. The message in the error code in the response body identifies the missing property. |
| 400/Bad Request |*RequestEndTimeIsInFuture* |The value for *ReportedEndTime* is in the future. Values in the future are not allowed for this argument. |
| 400/Bad Request |*SubscriberIdIsNotDirectTenant* |A provider API call has used a subscription ID that is not a valid tenant of the caller. |
| 400/Bad Request |*SubscriptionIdMissingInRequest* |The subscription ID of the caller is missing. |
| 400/Bad Request |*InvalidAggregationGranularity* |An invalid aggregation granularity was requested. Valid values are daily and hourly. |
| 503 |*ServiceUnavailable* |A retryable error occurred because the service is busy or the call is being throttled. |

## What is the policy for charging for VMs?

Running and stopped VMs generate usage data. Consistent with Azure, deallocation is needed to stop the emission of usage data. In the case in which the portal is unavailable, but the compute resource provider is still running, usage will be emitted.

## How do I extract usage data from the Azure Stack usage APIs?

The easiest way to extract usage data from local usage APIs on an Azure Stack is by using the [usage summary script on GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/AzureStack-Tools/blob/master/Usage/Usagesummary.ps1). The script requires the start and end dates as input parameters.

Alternatively, you can use the REST APIs, as explained in the [Provider resource usage API](azure-stack-provider-resource-api.md) and [Tenant resource usage API](azure-stack-tenant-resource-usage-api.md) sections.

## How can I associate usage extracted from Azure usage APIs to a specific Azure Stack user subscription?

The usage records include a property bag called **additionalinfo**, which includes the Azure Stack subscription ID. This is the user subscription emitting the corresponding usage record.

## Next steps

* [Customer billing and chargeback in Azure Stack](azure-stack-billing-and-chargeback.md)
* [Provider Resource Usage API](azure-stack-provider-resource-api.md)
* [Tenant Resource Usage API](azure-stack-tenant-resource-usage-api.md)
