azure-stack/operator/azure-stack-diagnostic-test.md, before:

---
title: Use the Azure Stack validation tool to validate system state | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn how to use the Azure Stack validation tool to validate system state.
services: azure-stack
author: justinha
manager: femila
services: azure-stack
cloud: azure-stack

ms.service: azure-stack
ms.workload: na
pms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: PowerShell
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 06/26/2019
ms.author: justinha
ms.reviewer: adshar
ms.lastreviewed: 12/03/2018
---

# Validate Azure Stack system state

*Applies to: Azure Stack integrated systems and Azure Stack Development Kit*

As an Azure Stack operator, being able to determine the health and status of your system on demand is essential. The Azure Stack validation tool (**Test-AzureStack**) is a PowerShell cmdlet that lets you run a series of tests on your system to identify failures if present. You'll typically be asked to run this tool through the [privileged end point (PEP)](azure-stack-privileged-endpoint.md) when you contact Microsoft Customer Services Support (CSS) with an issue. With the system-wide health and status information at hand, CSS can collect and analyze detailed logs, focus on the area where the error occurred, and work with you to fix the issue.

## Running the validation tool and accessing results

As stated above, the validation tool is run via the PEP. Each test returns a **PASS/FAIL** status in the PowerShell window. Here's an outline of the end-to-end validation testing process:

1. Access the PEP. Run the following commands to establish a PEP session:

   ```powershell
   Enter-PSSession -ComputerName "<ERCS VM-name/IP address>" -ConfigurationName PrivilegedEndpoint -Credential $localcred 
   ```

   > [!TIP]
   > To access the PEP on an Azure Stack Development Kit (ASDK) host computer, use AzS-ERCS01 for -ComputerName.

2. Once you're in the PEP, run:

   ```powershell
   Test-AzureStack
   ```

   Refer to the [Parameter considerations](azure-stack-diagnostic-test.md#parameter-considerations) and [Use case examples](azure-stack-diagnostic-test.md#use-case-examples) sections for more information.

3. If any tests report **FAIL**, run `Get-AzureStackLog`. For instructions on an integrated system, see [To run Get-AzureStackLog on Azure Stack integrated systems](azure-stack-configure-on-demand-diagnostic-log-collection.md#to-run-get-azurestacklog-on-azure-stack-integrated-systems), or on the ASDK, see [Run Get-AzureStackLog on an ASDK system](azure-stack-configure-on-demand-diagnostic-log-collection.md#run-get-azurestacklog-on-an-azure-stack-development-kit-asdk-system).

   The cmdlet gathers logs generated by Test-AzureStack. We recommend you don't collect logs and contact CSS instead if tests report **WARN**.

4. If you were instructed to run the validation tool by the CSS, the CSS representative will request the logs you collected to continue troubleshooting your issue.

## Tests available

The validation tool lets you run a series of system-level tests and basic cloud scenarios that provide you insight to the current state and help you fix issues in your system.

### Cloud infrastructure tests

These low impact tests work on an infrastructure level and provide you with information on various system components and functions. Currently, tests are grouped into the following categories:

| Test Category                                        | Argument for -Include and -Ignore |
| :--------------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------- |
| Azure Stack ACS Summary                              | AzsAcsSummary                     |
| Azure Stack Active Directory Summary                 | AzsAdSummary                      |
| Azure Stack Alert Summary                            | AzsAlertSummary                   |
| Azure Stack Application Crash Summary                | AzsApplicationCrashSummary        |
| Azure Stack Backup Share Accessibility Summary       | AzsBackupShareAccessibility       |
| Azure Stack BMC Summary                              | AzsStampBMCSummary                |
| Azure Stack Cloud Hosting Infrastructure Summary     | AzsHostingInfraSummary            |
| Azure Stack Cloud Hosting Infrastructure Utilization | AzsHostingInfraUtilization        |
| Azure Stack Control Plane Summary                    | AzsControlPlane                   |
| Azure Stack Defender Summary                         | AzsDefenderSummary                |
| Azure Stack Hosting Infrastructure Firmware Summary  | AzsHostingInfraFWSummary          |
| Azure Stack Infrastructure Capacity                  | AzsInfraCapacity                  |
| Azure Stack Infrastructure Performance               | AzsInfraPerformance               |
| Azure Stack Infrastructure Role Summary              | AzsInfraRoleSummary               |
| Azure Stack Network Infra                            | AzsNetworkInfra                   |
| Azure Stack Portal and API Summary                   | AzsPortalAPISummary               |
| Azure Stack Scale Unit VM Events                     | AzsScaleUnitEvents                |
| Azure Stack Scale Unit VM Resources                  | AzsScaleUnitResources             |
| Azure Stack Scenarios                                | AzsScenarios                      |
| Azure Stack SDN Validation Summary                   | AzsSDNValidation                  |
| Azure Stack Service Fabric Role Summary              | AzsSFRoleSummary                  |
| Azure Stack Storage Data Plane                       | AzsStorageDataPlane               |
| Azure Stack Storage Services Summary                 | AzsStorageSvcsSummary             |
| Azure Stack SQL Store Summary                        | AzsStoreSummary                   |
| Azure Stack Update Summary                           | AzsInfraUpdateSummary             |
| Azure Stack VM Placement Summary                     | AzsVmPlacement                    |

### Cloud scenario tests

In addition to the infrastructure tests above, you also have the ability to run cloud scenario tests to check functionality across infrastructure components. Cloud admin credentials are required to run these tests as they involve resource deployment.

> [!NOTE]
> Currently you can't run cloud scenario tests using Active Directory Federated Services (AD FS) credentials.

The following cloud scenarios are tested by the validation tool:
- Resource group creation
- Plan creation
- Offer creation
- Storage account creation
- Virtual machine creation (VM)
- Blob storage operation
- Queue storage operation
- Table storage operation

## Parameter considerations

- The parameter **List** can be used to display all available test categories.

- The parameters **Include** and **Ignore** can be used to include or exclude test categories. See the following section for more information about the information to be used with these arguments.

  ```powershell
  Test-AzureStack -Include AzsSFRoleSummary, AzsInfraCapacity
  ```

  ```powershell
  Test-AzureStack -Ignore AzsInfraPerformance
  ```

- A tenant VM is deployed as part of the cloud scenario tests. You can use **DoNotDeployTenantVm** to disable this.

- You need to supply the **ServiceAdminCredential** parameter to run cloud scenario tests as described in the [Use case examples](azure-stack-diagnostic-test.md#use-case-examples) section.

- **BackupSharePath** and **BackupShareCredential** are used when testing infrastructure backup settings as shown in the [Use case examples](azure-stack-diagnostic-test.md#use-case-examples) section.

- **DetailedResults** can be used to get pass/fail/warning information for each test, as well as the overall run. When not specified, **Test-AzureStack** returns **$true** if there are no failures, and **$false** if there are failures.
- **TimeoutSeconds** can be used to set a specific time for each group to complete.

- The validation tool also supports common PowerShell parameters: Verbose, Debug, ErrorAction, ErrorVariable, WarningAction, WarningVariable, OutBuffer, PipelineVariable, and OutVariable. For more information, see [About Common Parameters](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).  

## Use case examples

### Run validation without cloud scenarios

Run the validation tool without the **ServiceAdminCredential** parameter to skip running cloud scenario tests: 

```powershell
New-PSSession -ComputerName "<ERCS VM-name/IP address>" -ConfigurationName PrivilegedEndpoint -Credential $localcred
Test-AzureStack
```

### Run validation with cloud scenarios

Supplying the validation tool with the **ServiceAdminCredentials** parameter runs the cloud scenario tests by default: 

```powershell
Enter-PSSession -ComputerName "<ERCS VM-name/IP address>" -ConfigurationName PrivilegedEndpoint -Credential $localcred 
Test-AzureStack -ServiceAdminCredential "<Cloud administrator user name>" 
```

If you wish to run ONLY cloud scenarios without running the rest of the tests, you can use the **Include** parameter to do so: 

```powershell
Enter-PSSession -ComputerName "<ERCS VM-name/IP address>" -ConfigurationName PrivilegedEndpoint -Credential $localcred 
Test-AzureStack -ServiceAdminCredential "<Cloud administrator user name>" -Include AzsScenarios   
```

The cloud admin user name must be typed in the UPN format: serviceadmin@contoso.onmicrosoft.com (Azure AD). When prompted, type the password to the cloud admin account.

### Groups

To improve the operator experience, a **Group** parameter has been enabled to run multiple test categories at the same time. Currently, there are 3 groups defined: **Default**, **UpdateReadiness**, and **SecretRotationReadiness**.

- **Default**: Considered to be a standard run of **Test-AzureStack**. This group is run by default if no other groups are selected.
- **UpdateReadiness**: A check to see if the stamp can be updated. When the **UpdateReadiness** group is run, warnings are displayed as errors in the console output, and they should be considered as blockers for the update. The following categories are part of the **UpdateReadiness** group:

  - **AzsAcsSummary**
  - **AzsDefenderSummary**
  - **AzsHostingInfraSummary**
  - **AzsInfraCapacity**
  - **AzsInfraRoleSummary**
  - **AzsPortalAPISummary**
  - **AzsSFRoleSummary**
  - **AzsStoreSummary**

- **SecretRotationReadiness**: A check to see if the stamp is in a state in which secret rotation can be run. When the **SecretRotationReadiness** group is run, warnings are displayed as errors in the console output and they should be considered as blockers for secret rotation. The following categories are part of the SecretRotationReadiness Group:

  - **AzsAcsSummary**
  - **AzsDefenderSummary**
  - **AzsHostingInfraSummary**
  - **AzsInfraCapacity**
  - **AzsInfraRoleSummary**
  - **AzsPortalAPISummary**
  - **AzsSFRoleSummary**
  - **AzsStorageSvcsSummary**
  - **AzsStoreSummary**

#### Group parameter example

The following example runs **Test-AzureStack** to test system readiness before installing an update or hotfix using **Group**. Before you start the installation of an update or hotfix, run **Test-AzureStack** to check the status of your Azure Stack:

```powershell
Test-AzureStack -Group UpdateReadiness
```

If your Azure Stack is running a version before 1811, use the following PowerShell commands to run **Test-AzureStack**:

```powershell
New-PSSession -ComputerName "<ERCS VM-name/IP address>" -ConfigurationName PrivilegedEndpoint -Credential $localcred 
Test-AzureStack -Include AzsControlPlane, AzsDefenderSummary, AzsHostingInfraSummary, AzsHostingInfraUtilization, AzsInfraCapacity, AzsInfraRoleSummary, AzsPortalAPISummary, AzsSFRoleSummary, AzsStampBMCSummary
```

### Run validation tool to test infrastructure backup settings

*Before* configuring infrastructure backup, you can test the backup share path and credential using the **AzsBackupShareAccessibility** test:

  ```powershell
  Enter-PSSession -ComputerName "<ERCS VM-name/IP address>" -ConfigurationName PrivilegedEndpoint -Credential $localcred 
  Test-AzureStack -Include AzsBackupShareAccessibility -BackupSharePath "\\<fileserver>\<fileshare>" -BackupShareCredential $using:backupcred
  ```

*After* configuring backup, you can run **AzsBackupShareAccessibility** to validate the share is accessible from the ERCS:

  ```powershell
  Enter-PSSession -ComputerName "<ERCS VM-name/IP address>" -ConfigurationName PrivilegedEndpoint -Credential $localcred 
  Test-AzureStack -Include AzsBackupShareAccessibility
  ```

To test new credentials with the configured backup share, run: 

  ```powershell
  Enter-PSSession -ComputerName "<ERCS VM-name/IP address>" -ConfigurationName PrivilegedEndpoint -Credential $localcred 
  Test-AzureStack -Include AzsBackupShareAccessibility -BackupShareCredential "<PSCredential for backup share>"
  ```

### Run validation tool to test network infrastructure 

This test checks the connectivity of the network infrastructure bypassing the Azure Stack software defined network (SDN). It demonstrates connectivity from a Public VIP to the configured DNS forwarders, NTP servers, and authentication endpoints. This includes connectivity to Azure when using Azure AD as identity provider or the federated server when using AD FS as identity provider.

Include the debug parameter to get a detailed output of the command:

```powershell 
Test-AzureStack -Include AzsNetworkInfra -Debug
```



## Next steps

To learn more about Azure Stack diagnostics tools and issue logging, see [Azure Stack diagnostics tools](azure-stack-configure-on-demand-diagnostic-log-collection.md#using-pep-to-collect-diagnostic-logs).

To learn more about troubleshooting, see [Microsoft Azure Stack troubleshooting](azure-stack-troubleshooting.md).

Commit message:

changing stamp --> azure stack instance

azure-stack/operator/azure-stack-diagnostic-test.md, after:

---
title: Use the Azure Stack validation tool to validate system state | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn how to use the Azure Stack validation tool to validate system state.
services: azure-stack
author: justinha
manager: femila
services: azure-stack
cloud: azure-stack

ms.service: azure-stack
ms.workload: na
pms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: PowerShell
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 06/26/2019
ms.author: justinha
ms.reviewer: adshar
ms.lastreviewed: 12/03/2018
---

# Validate Azure Stack system state

*Applies to: Azure Stack integrated systems and Azure Stack Development Kit*

As an Azure Stack operator, being able to determine the health and status of your system on demand is essential. The Azure Stack validation tool (**Test-AzureStack**) is a PowerShell cmdlet that lets you run a series of tests on your system to identify failures if present. You'll typically be asked to run this tool through the [privileged end point (PEP)](azure-stack-privileged-endpoint.md) when you contact Microsoft Customer Services Support (CSS) with an issue. With the system-wide health and status information at hand, CSS can collect and analyze detailed logs, focus on the area where the error occurred, and work with you to fix the issue.

## Running the validation tool and accessing results

As stated above, the validation tool is run via the PEP. Each test returns a **PASS/FAIL** status in the PowerShell window. Here's an outline of the end-to-end validation testing process:

1. Access the PEP. Run the following commands to establish a PEP session:

   ```powershell
   Enter-PSSession -ComputerName "<ERCS VM-name/IP address>" -ConfigurationName PrivilegedEndpoint -Credential $localcred 
   ```

   > [!TIP]
   > To access the PEP on an Azure Stack Development Kit (ASDK) host computer, use AzS-ERCS01 for -ComputerName.

2. Once you're in the PEP, run:

   ```powershell
   Test-AzureStack
   ```

   Refer to the [Parameter considerations](azure-stack-diagnostic-test.md#parameter-considerations) and [Use case examples](azure-stack-diagnostic-test.md#use-case-examples) sections for more information.

3. If any tests report **FAIL**, run `Get-AzureStackLog`. For instructions on an integrated system, see [To run Get-AzureStackLog on Azure Stack integrated systems](azure-stack-configure-on-demand-diagnostic-log-collection.md#to-run-get-azurestacklog-on-azure-stack-integrated-systems), or on the ASDK, see [Run Get-AzureStackLog on an ASDK system](azure-stack-configure-on-demand-diagnostic-log-collection.md#run-get-azurestacklog-on-an-azure-stack-development-kit-asdk-system).

   The cmdlet gathers logs generated by Test-AzureStack. We recommend you don't collect logs and contact CSS instead if tests report **WARN**.

4. If you were instructed to run the validation tool by the CSS, the CSS representative will request the logs you collected to continue troubleshooting your issue.

## Tests available

The validation tool lets you run a series of system-level tests and basic cloud scenarios that provide you insight to the current state and help you fix issues in your system.

### Cloud infrastructure tests

These low impact tests work on an infrastructure level and provide you with information on various system components and functions. Currently, tests are grouped into the following categories:

| Test Category                                        | Argument for -Include and -Ignore |
| :--------------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------- |
| Azure Stack ACS Summary                              | AzsAcsSummary                     |
| Azure Stack Active Directory Summary                 | AzsAdSummary                      |
| Azure Stack Alert Summary                            | AzsAlertSummary                   |
| Azure Stack Application Crash Summary                | AzsApplicationCrashSummary        |
| Azure Stack Backup Share Accessibility Summary       | AzsBackupShareAccessibility       |
| Azure Stack BMC Summary                              | AzsStampBMCSummary                |
| Azure Stack Cloud Hosting Infrastructure Summary     | AzsHostingInfraSummary            |
| Azure Stack Cloud Hosting Infrastructure Utilization | AzsHostingInfraUtilization        |
| Azure Stack Control Plane Summary                    | AzsControlPlane                   |
| Azure Stack Defender Summary                         | AzsDefenderSummary                |
| Azure Stack Hosting Infrastructure Firmware Summary  | AzsHostingInfraFWSummary          |
| Azure Stack Infrastructure Capacity                  | AzsInfraCapacity                  |
| Azure Stack Infrastructure Performance               | AzsInfraPerformance               |
| Azure Stack Infrastructure Role Summary              | AzsInfraRoleSummary               |
| Azure Stack Network Infra                            | AzsNetworkInfra                   |
| Azure Stack Portal and API Summary                   | AzsPortalAPISummary               |
| Azure Stack Scale Unit VM Events                     | AzsScaleUnitEvents                |
| Azure Stack Scale Unit VM Resources                  | AzsScaleUnitResources             |
| Azure Stack Scenarios                                | AzsScenarios                      |
| Azure Stack SDN Validation Summary                   | AzsSDNValidation                  |
| Azure Stack Service Fabric Role Summary              | AzsSFRoleSummary                  |
| Azure Stack Storage Data Plane                       | AzsStorageDataPlane               |
| Azure Stack Storage Services Summary                 | AzsStorageSvcsSummary             |
| Azure Stack SQL Store Summary                        | AzsStoreSummary                   |
| Azure Stack Update Summary                           | AzsInfraUpdateSummary             |
| Azure Stack VM Placement Summary                     | AzsVmPlacement                    |

### Cloud scenario tests

In addition to the infrastructure tests above, you also have the ability to run cloud scenario tests to check functionality across infrastructure components. Cloud admin credentials are required to run these tests as they involve resource deployment.

> [!NOTE]
> Currently you can't run cloud scenario tests using Active Directory Federated Services (AD FS) credentials.

The following cloud scenarios are tested by the validation tool:
- Resource group creation
- Plan creation
- Offer creation
- Storage account creation
- Virtual machine creation (VM)
- Blob storage operation
- Queue storage operation
- Table storage operation

## Parameter considerations

- The parameter **List** can be used to display all available test categories.

- The parameters **Include** and **Ignore** can be used to include or exclude test categories. See the following section for more information about the information to be used with these arguments.

  ```powershell
  Test-AzureStack -Include AzsSFRoleSummary, AzsInfraCapacity
  ```

  ```powershell
  Test-AzureStack -Ignore AzsInfraPerformance
  ```

- A tenant VM is deployed as part of the cloud scenario tests. You can use **DoNotDeployTenantVm** to disable this.

- You need to supply the **ServiceAdminCredential** parameter to run cloud scenario tests as described in the [Use case examples](azure-stack-diagnostic-test.md#use-case-examples) section.

- **BackupSharePath** and **BackupShareCredential** are used when testing infrastructure backup settings as shown in the [Use case examples](azure-stack-diagnostic-test.md#use-case-examples) section.

- **DetailedResults** can be used to get pass/fail/warning information for each test, as well as the overall run. When not specified, **Test-AzureStack** returns **$true** if there are no failures, and **$false** if there are failures.
- **TimeoutSeconds** can be used to set a specific time for each group to complete.

- The validation tool also supports common PowerShell parameters: Verbose, Debug, ErrorAction, ErrorVariable, WarningAction, WarningVariable, OutBuffer, PipelineVariable, and OutVariable. For more information, see [About Common Parameters](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).  

## Use case examples

### Run validation without cloud scenarios

Run the validation tool without the **ServiceAdminCredential** parameter to skip running cloud scenario tests: 

```powershell
New-PSSession -ComputerName "<ERCS VM-name/IP address>" -ConfigurationName PrivilegedEndpoint -Credential $localcred
Test-AzureStack
```

### Run validation with cloud scenarios

Supplying the validation tool with the **ServiceAdminCredentials** parameter runs the cloud scenario tests by default: 

```powershell
Enter-PSSession -ComputerName "<ERCS VM-name/IP address>" -ConfigurationName PrivilegedEndpoint -Credential $localcred 
Test-AzureStack -ServiceAdminCredential "<Cloud administrator user name>" 
```

If you wish to run ONLY cloud scenarios without running the rest of the tests, you can use the **Include** parameter to do so: 

```powershell
Enter-PSSession -ComputerName "<ERCS VM-name/IP address>" -ConfigurationName PrivilegedEndpoint -Credential $localcred 
Test-AzureStack -ServiceAdminCredential "<Cloud administrator user name>" -Include AzsScenarios   
```

The cloud admin user name must be typed in the UPN format: serviceadmin@contoso.onmicrosoft.com (Azure AD). When prompted, type the password to the cloud admin account.

### Groups

To improve the operator experience, a **Group** parameter has been enabled to run multiple test categories at the same time. Currently, there are 3 groups defined: **Default**, **UpdateReadiness**, and **SecretRotationReadiness**.

- **Default**: Considered to be a standard run of **Test-AzureStack**. This group is run by default if no other groups are selected.
- **UpdateReadiness**: A check to see if the Azure Stack instance can be updated. When the **UpdateReadiness** group is run, warnings are displayed as errors in the console output, and they should be considered as blockers for the update. The following categories are part of the **UpdateReadiness** group:

  - **AzsAcsSummary**
  - **AzsDefenderSummary**
  - **AzsHostingInfraSummary**
  - **AzsInfraCapacity**
  - **AzsInfraRoleSummary**
  - **AzsPortalAPISummary**
  - **AzsSFRoleSummary**
  - **AzsStoreSummary**

- **SecretRotationReadiness**: A check to see if the Azure Stack instance is in a state in which secret rotation can be run. When the **SecretRotationReadiness** group is run, warnings are displayed as errors in the console output and they should be considered as blockers for secret rotation. The following categories are part of the SecretRotationReadiness Group:

  - **AzsAcsSummary**
  - **AzsDefenderSummary**
  - **AzsHostingInfraSummary**
  - **AzsInfraCapacity**
  - **AzsInfraRoleSummary**
  - **AzsPortalAPISummary**
  - **AzsSFRoleSummary**
  - **AzsStorageSvcsSummary**
  - **AzsStoreSummary**

#### Group parameter example

The following example runs **Test-AzureStack** to test system readiness before installing an update or hotfix using **Group**. Before you start the installation of an update or hotfix, run **Test-AzureStack** to check the status of your Azure Stack:

```powershell
Test-AzureStack -Group UpdateReadiness
```

If your Azure Stack is running a version before 1811, use the following PowerShell commands to run **Test-AzureStack**:

```powershell
New-PSSession -ComputerName "<ERCS VM-name/IP address>" -ConfigurationName PrivilegedEndpoint -Credential $localcred 
Test-AzureStack -Include AzsControlPlane, AzsDefenderSummary, AzsHostingInfraSummary, AzsHostingInfraUtilization, AzsInfraCapacity, AzsInfraRoleSummary, AzsPortalAPISummary, AzsSFRoleSummary, AzsStampBMCSummary
```

### Run validation tool to test infrastructure backup settings

*Before* configuring infrastructure backup, you can test the backup share path and credential using the **AzsBackupShareAccessibility** test:

  ```powershell
  Enter-PSSession -ComputerName "<ERCS VM-name/IP address>" -ConfigurationName PrivilegedEndpoint -Credential $localcred 
  Test-AzureStack -Include AzsBackupShareAccessibility -BackupSharePath "\\<fileserver>\<fileshare>" -BackupShareCredential $using:backupcred
  ```

*After* configuring backup, you can run **AzsBackupShareAccessibility** to validate the share is accessible from the ERCS:

  ```powershell
  Enter-PSSession -ComputerName "<ERCS VM-name/IP address>" -ConfigurationName PrivilegedEndpoint -Credential $localcred 
  Test-AzureStack -Include AzsBackupShareAccessibility
  ```

To test new credentials with the configured backup share, run: 

  ```powershell
  Enter-PSSession -ComputerName "<ERCS VM-name/IP address>" -ConfigurationName PrivilegedEndpoint -Credential $localcred 
  Test-AzureStack -Include AzsBackupShareAccessibility -BackupShareCredential "<PSCredential for backup share>"
  ```

### Run validation tool to test network infrastructure 

This test checks the connectivity of the network infrastructure bypassing the Azure Stack software defined network (SDN). It demonstrates connectivity from a Public VIP to the configured DNS forwarders, NTP servers, and authentication endpoints. This includes connectivity to Azure when using Azure AD as identity provider or the federated server when using AD FS as identity provider.

Include the debug parameter to get a detailed output of the command:

```powershell 
Test-AzureStack -Include AzsNetworkInfra -Debug
```



## Next steps

To learn more about Azure Stack diagnostics tools and issue logging, see [Azure Stack diagnostics tools](azure-stack-configure-on-demand-diagnostic-log-collection.md#using-pep-to-collect-diagnostic-logs).

To learn more about troubleshooting, see [Microsoft Azure Stack troubleshooting](azure-stack-troubleshooting.md).
