azure-stack/operator/azure-stack-sql-resource-provider-remove.md, before:

---
title: Remove the SQL resource provider
titleSuffix: Azure Stack Hub
description: Learn how to remove the SQL resource provider from your Azure Stack Hub deployment.
author: bryanla

ms.topic: article
ms.date: 10/02/2019
ms.author: bryanla
ms.reviewer: xiaofmao
ms.lastreviewed: 11/20/2019

# Intent: As an Azure Stack operator, I want to remove the SQL resource provider.
# Keyword: remove sql resource provider azure stack

---


# Remove the SQL resource provider

Before you remove the SQL resource provider, you must remove all the provider dependencies. You'll also need a copy of the deployment package that was used to install the resource provider.

> [!NOTE]
> You can find the download links for the resource provider installers in [Deploy the resource provider prerequisites](./azure-stack-sql-resource-provider-deploy.md#prerequisites).

Removing the SQL resource provider will delete the associated plans and quotas managed by operator. But it doesn't delete tenant databases from hosting servers.

## To remove the SQL resource provider

1. Verify that you've removed all the existing SQL resource provider dependencies.

   > [!NOTE]
   > Uninstalling the SQL resource provider will proceed even if dependent resources are currently using the resource provider.
  
2. Get a copy of the SQL resource provider installation package and then run the self-extractor to extract the contents to a temporary directory.

3. Open a new elevated PowerShell console window and change to the directory where you extracted the SQL resource provider installation files.

4. Run the DeploySqlProvider.ps1 script using the following parameters:

    * **Uninstall**: Removes the resource provider and all associated resources.
    * **PrivilegedEndpoint**: The IP address or DNS name of the privileged endpoint.
    * **AzureEnvironment**: The Azure environment used for deploying Azure Stack Hub. Required only for Azure AD deployments.
    * **CloudAdminCredential**: The credential for the cloud admin, necessary to access the privileged endpoint.
    * **AzCredential**: The credential for the Azure Stack Hub service admin account. Use the same credentials that you used for deploying Azure Stack Hub. The script will fail if the account you use with AzCredential requires multi-factor authentication (MFA).

## Next steps

[Offer App Services as PaaS](azure-stack-app-service-overview.md)

Commit message:

add clear cache notice to deploy/remove/udpate

azure-stack/operator/azure-stack-sql-resource-provider-remove.md, after:

---
title: Remove the SQL resource provider
titleSuffix: Azure Stack Hub
description: Learn how to remove the SQL resource provider from your Azure Stack Hub deployment.
author: bryanla

ms.topic: article
ms.date: 10/02/2019
ms.author: bryanla
ms.reviewer: xiaofmao
ms.lastreviewed: 11/20/2019

# Intent: As an Azure Stack operator, I want to remove the SQL resource provider.
# Keyword: remove sql resource provider azure stack

---


# Remove the SQL resource provider

Before you remove the SQL resource provider, you must remove all the provider dependencies. You'll also need a copy of the deployment package that was used to install the resource provider.

> [!NOTE]
> You can find the download links for the resource provider installers in [Deploy the resource provider prerequisites](./azure-stack-sql-resource-provider-deploy.md#prerequisites).

Removing the SQL resource provider will delete the associated plans and quotas managed by operator. But it doesn't delete tenant databases from hosting servers.

## To remove the SQL resource provider

1. Verify that you've removed all the existing SQL resource provider dependencies.

   > [!NOTE]
   > Uninstalling the SQL resource provider will proceed even if dependent resources are currently using the resource provider.
  
2. Get a copy of the SQL resource provider installation package and then run the self-extractor to extract the contents to a temporary directory.

3. Open a new elevated PowerShell console window and change to the directory where you extracted the SQL resource provider installation files.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> We strongly recommend using **Clear-AzureRmContext -Scope CurrentUser** and **Clear-AzureRmContext -Scope Process** to clear the cache before running the script.


4. Run the DeploySqlProvider.ps1 script using the following parameters:

    * **Uninstall**: Removes the resource provider and all associated resources.
    * **PrivilegedEndpoint**: The IP address or DNS name of the privileged endpoint.
    * **AzureEnvironment**: The Azure environment used for deploying Azure Stack Hub. Required only for Azure AD deployments.
    * **CloudAdminCredential**: The credential for the cloud admin, necessary to access the privileged endpoint.
    * **AzCredential**: The credential for the Azure Stack Hub service admin account. Use the same credentials that you used for deploying Azure Stack Hub. The script will fail if the account you use with AzCredential requires multi-factor authentication (MFA).

## Next steps

[Offer App Services as PaaS](azure-stack-app-service-overview.md)
