azure-stack/operator/azure-stack-billing-and-chargeback.md, before:

---
title: Customer billing And chargeback in Azure Stack | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn how to retrieve resource usage information from Azure Stack.
services: azure-stack
documentationcenter: ''
author: sethmanheim
manager: femila
editor: ''

ms.service: azure-stack
ms.workload: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 06/21/2019
ms.author: sethm
ms.reviewer: alfredop
ms.lastreviewed: 03/21/2019

---

# Usage and billing in Azure Stack

This article describes how Azure Stack users are billed for resource usage, and how the billing information is accessed for analytics and charge back.

Azure Stack collects and groups usage data for resources that are used, then forwards this data to Azure Commerce. Azure Commerce bills you for Azure Stack usage in the same way it bills you for Azure usage.

You can also get usage data and export it to your own billing or charge back system by using a billing adapter, or export it to a business intelligence tool such as Microsoft Power BI.

## Usage pipeline

Each resource provider in Azure Stack posts usage data per resource usage. The usage service periodically (hourly and daily) aggregates usage data and stores it in the usage database. Azure Stack operators and users can access the stored usage data through the Azure Stack resource usage APIs.

If you have [registered your Azure Stack instance with Azure](azure-stack-registration.md), Azure Stack is configured to send the usage data to Azure Commerce. After the data is uploaded to Azure, you can access it through the billing portal or by using Azure resource usage APIs. For more information about what usage data is reported to Azure, see [Usage data reporting](azure-stack-usage-reporting.md).  

The following image shows the key components in the usage pipeline:

![Usage pipeline](media/azure-stack-billing-and-chargeback/usagepipeline.png)

## What usage information can I find, and how?

Azure Stack resource providers (such as Compute, Storage, and Network) generate usage data at hourly intervals for each subscription. The usage data contains information about the resource used, such as resource name, subscription used, and quantity used. To learn about the meters' ID resources, see the [Usage API FAQ](azure-stack-usage-related-faq.md).

After the usage data has been collected, it is [reported to Azure](azure-stack-usage-reporting.md) to generate a bill, which can be viewed through the Azure billing portal.

> [!NOTE]  
> Usage data reporting is not required for the Azure Stack Development Kit (ASDK) and for Azure Stack integrated system users who license under the capacity model. To learn more about licensing in Azure Stack, see the [packaging and pricing data sheet](https://azure.microsoft.com/mediahandler/files/resourcefiles/5bc3f30c-cd57-4513-989e-056325eb95e1/Azure-Stack-packaging-and-pricing-datasheet.pdf).

The Azure billing portal shows usage data for the chargeable resources. In addition to the chargeable resources, Azure Stack captures usage data for a broader set of resources, which you can access in your Azure Stack environment through REST APIs or PowerShell cmdlets. Azure Stack operators can get the usage data for all user subscriptions. Individual users can only get their own usage details.

## Usage reporting for multi-tenant Cloud Service Providers

A multi-tenant Cloud Service Provider (CSP) who has many customers using Azure Stack may want to report each customer usage separately, so that the provider can charge usage to different Azure subscriptions.

Each customer has their identity represented by a different Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant. Azure Stack supports assigning one CSP subscription to each Azure AD tenant. You can add tenants and their subscriptions to the base Azure Stack registration. The base registration is done for all Azure Stack instances. If a subscription is not registered for a tenant, the user can still use Azure Stack, and their usage will be sent to the subscription used for the base registration.

## Next steps

- [Register with Azure Stack](azure-stack-registration.md)
- [Report Azure Stack usage data to Azure](azure-stack-usage-reporting.md)
- [Provider Resource Usage API](azure-stack-provider-resource-api.md)
- [Tenant Resource Usage API](azure-stack-tenant-resource-usage-api.md)
- [Usage-related FAQ](azure-stack-usage-related-faq.md)

Commit message:

full edit + SEO to billing and chargebacks

azure-stack/operator/azure-stack-billing-and-chargeback.md, after:

---
title: Customer billing and chargebacks in Azure Stack | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn how Azure Stack users are billed for resource usage, and how the billing information is accessed for analytics and chargeback.
services: azure-stack
documentationcenter: ''
author: sethmanheim
manager: femila
editor: ''

ms.service: azure-stack
ms.workload: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 06/21/2019
ms.author: sethm
ms.reviewer: alfredop
ms.lastreviewed: 03/21/2019

---

# Usage and billing in Azure Stack

This article describes how Azure Stack users are billed for resource usage, and how the billing information is accessed for analytics and chargeback.

Azure Stack collects and groups usage data for resources that are used, then forwards this data to Azure Commerce. Azure Commerce bills you for Azure Stack usage in the same way it bills you for Azure usage.

You can also get usage data and export it to your own billing or chargeback system by using a billing adapter, or export it to a business intelligence tool such as Microsoft Power BI.

## Usage pipeline

Each resource provider in Azure Stack posts usage data per resource usage. The usage service periodically (hourly and daily) aggregates usage data and stores it in the usage database. Azure Stack operators and users can access the stored usage data through the Azure Stack resource usage APIs.

If you've [registered your Azure Stack instance with Azure](azure-stack-registration.md), Azure Stack is configured to send the usage data to Azure Commerce. After the data is uploaded to Azure, you can access it through the billing portal or by using Azure resource usage APIs. For more info on what usage data is reported to Azure, see [Usage data reporting](azure-stack-usage-reporting.md).  

The following image shows the key components in the usage pipeline:

![Usage pipeline](media/azure-stack-billing-and-chargeback/usagepipeline.png)

## What usage info can I find, and how?

Azure Stack resource providers (such as Compute, Storage, and Network) generate usage data at hourly intervals for each subscription. The usage data contains information about the resource used, such as resource name, subscription used, and quantity used. To learn about the meters' ID resources, see the [Usage API FAQ](azure-stack-usage-related-faq.md).

After the usage data has been collected, it's [reported to Azure](azure-stack-usage-reporting.md) to generate a bill, which can be viewed through the Azure billing portal.

> [!NOTE]  
> Usage data reporting isn't required for the Azure Stack Development Kit (ASDK) and for Azure Stack integrated system users who license under the capacity model. To learn more about licensing in Azure Stack, see the [packaging and pricing data sheet](https://azure.microsoft.com/mediahandler/files/resourcefiles/5bc3f30c-cd57-4513-989e-056325eb95e1/Azure-Stack-packaging-and-pricing-datasheet.pdf).

The Azure billing portal shows usage data for the chargeable resources. In addition to the chargeable resources, Azure Stack captures usage data for a broader set of resources, which you can access in your Azure Stack environment through REST APIs or PowerShell cmdlets. Azure Stack operators can get the usage data for all user subscriptions. Individual users can only get their own usage details.

## Usage reporting for multi-tenant Cloud Service Providers

A multi-user Cloud Service Provider (CSP) who has many customers using Azure Stack may want to report each customer usage separately, so that the provider can charge usage to different Azure subscriptions.

Each customer has their identity represented by a different Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant. Azure Stack supports assigning one CSP subscription to each Azure AD tenant. You can add tenants and their subscriptions to the base Azure Stack registration. The base registration is done for all Azure Stack instances. If a subscription isn't registered for a user, the user can still use Azure Stack, and their usage will be sent to the subscription used for the base registration.

## Next steps

- [Register with Azure Stack](azure-stack-registration.md)
- [Report Azure Stack usage data to Azure](azure-stack-usage-reporting.md)
- [Provider Resource Usage API](azure-stack-provider-resource-api.md)
- [Tenant Resource Usage API](azure-stack-tenant-resource-usage-api.md)
- [Usage-related FAQ](azure-stack-usage-related-faq.md)
