azure-stack/operator/azure-stack-mysql-resource-provider-11930.md, before:

---
title: Azure Stack Hub MySQL resource provider 1.1.93.0 release notes 
description: View the release notes to see what's new in the Azure Stack Hub MySQL resource provider 1.1.93.0 update.
author: caoyang
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 09/22/2020
ms.author: caoyang
ms.reviewer: xiaofmao
ms.lastreviewed: 09/22/2020

# Intent: As an Azure Stack Hub operator, I want the release notes for the MySQL resource provider 1.1.93.x update.
# Keyword: azure stack hub mysql resource provider 1.1.93.x release notes

---

# MySQL resource provider 1.1.93.x release notes

These release notes describe the improvements and known issues in MySQL resource provider version 1.1.93.x.

## Build reference
Download the MySQL resource provider binary and then run the self-extractor to extract the contents to a temporary directory. The resource provider has a minimum corresponding Azure Stack Hub build. The minimum Azure Stack Hub release version required to install this version of the MySQL resource provider is listed below:

> |Supported Azure Stack Hub version|MySQL resource provider version|
> |-----|-----|
> |Version 2008, 2005|[MySQL RP version 1.1.93.1](https://aka.ms/azshmysqlrp11931)|  
> |     |     |

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Apply the minimum supported Azure Stack Hub update to your Azure Stack Hub integrated system before deploying the latest version of the MySQL resource provider.

## New features and fixes

This version of the Azure Stack Hub MySQL resource provider includes the following improvements and fixes:

- **Update the base VM to a specialized Windows Server.** This Windows Server version is specialize for Azure Stack Hub Add-On RP Infrastructure and it is not visible to the tenant marketplace. Make sure to download the **Microsoft AzureStack Add-On RP Windows Server** image before deploying or upgrading to this version of the MySQL resource provider.
- **Support removing orphaned database metadata and hosting server metadata.** When a hosting server cannot be connected anymore, the tenant will have an option to remove the orphaned database metadata from the portal. When there is no orphaned database metadata linked to the hosting server, the operator will be able to remove the orphaned hosting server metadata from the admin portal.
- **Make KeyVaultPfxPassword an optional argument when performing secrets rotation.** Check [this document](azure-stack-sql-resource-provider-maintain.md#secrets-rotation) for details.
- **Other bug fixes.**

It's recommended that you apply MySQL resource provider 1.1.93.1 after Azure Stack Hub is upgraded to the 2005 release.

## Known issues
Deployment of 1.1.93.0 version may fail if the wrong AzureRmContext is used. It is recommended to upgrade to 1.1.93.1 version directly. If you have already successfully upgraded to 1.1.93.0, you can safely skip the 1.1.93.1 version.

## Next steps

- [Learn more about the MySQL resource provider](azure-stack-mysql-resource-provider.md).
- [Prepare to deploy the MySQL resource provider](azure-stack-mysql-resource-provider-deploy.md#prerequisites).
- [Upgrade the MySQL resource provider from a previous version](azure-stack-mysql-resource-provider-update.md).

Commit message:

release note update for same version upgrade issue

azure-stack/operator/azure-stack-mysql-resource-provider-11930.md, after:

---
title: Azure Stack Hub MySQL resource provider 1.1.93.0 release notes 
description: View the release notes to see what's new in the Azure Stack Hub MySQL resource provider 1.1.93.0 update.
author: caoyang
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 09/22/2020
ms.author: caoyang
ms.reviewer: xiaofmao
ms.lastreviewed: 09/22/2020

# Intent: As an Azure Stack Hub operator, I want the release notes for the MySQL resource provider 1.1.93.x update.
# Keyword: azure stack hub mysql resource provider 1.1.93.x release notes

---

# MySQL resource provider 1.1.93.x release notes

These release notes describe the improvements and known issues in MySQL resource provider version 1.1.93.x.

## Build reference
Download the MySQL resource provider binary and then run the self-extractor to extract the contents to a temporary directory. The resource provider has a minimum corresponding Azure Stack Hub build. The minimum Azure Stack Hub release version required to install this version of the MySQL resource provider is listed below:

> |Supported Azure Stack Hub version|MySQL resource provider version|
> |-----|-----|
> |Version 2008, 2005|[MySQL RP version 1.1.93.1](https://aka.ms/azshmysqlrp11931)|  
> |     |     |

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Apply the minimum supported Azure Stack Hub update to your Azure Stack Hub integrated system before deploying the latest version of the MySQL resource provider.

## New features and fixes

This version of the Azure Stack Hub MySQL resource provider includes the following improvements and fixes:

- **Update the base VM to a specialized Windows Server.** This Windows Server version is specialize for Azure Stack Hub Add-On RP Infrastructure and it is not visible to the tenant marketplace. Make sure to download the **Microsoft AzureStack Add-On RP Windows Server** image before deploying or upgrading to this version of the MySQL resource provider.
- **Support removing orphaned database metadata and hosting server metadata.** When a hosting server cannot be connected anymore, the tenant will have an option to remove the orphaned database metadata from the portal. When there is no orphaned database metadata linked to the hosting server, the operator will be able to remove the orphaned hosting server metadata from the admin portal.
- **Make KeyVaultPfxPassword an optional argument when performing secrets rotation.** Check [this document](azure-stack-sql-resource-provider-maintain.md#secrets-rotation) for details.
- **Other bug fixes.**

It's recommended that you apply MySQL resource provider 1.1.93.1 after Azure Stack Hub is upgraded to the 2005 release.

## Known issues
Deployment of 1.1.93.0 version may fail if the wrong AzureRmContext is used. It is recommended to upgrade to 1.1.93.1 version directly. If you have already successfully upgraded to 1.1.93.0, you can safely skip the 1.1.93.1 version.

When redeploying the MySQL resource provider while the same version had deployed already (for example, when MySQL resource provider 1.1.93.1 is already deployed, and the same version is deployed again), the VM that is hosting the MySQL resource provider will be stopped. To fix this issue, go to the admin portal, locate and restart the VM named mysqlvm\<version\> in the resource group named system.\<region\>.mysqladapter.

## Next steps

- [Learn more about the MySQL resource provider](azure-stack-mysql-resource-provider.md).
- [Prepare to deploy the MySQL resource provider](azure-stack-mysql-resource-provider-deploy.md#prerequisites).
- [Upgrade the MySQL resource provider from a previous version](azure-stack-mysql-resource-provider-update.md).
