---
title: Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2306.4.98
description: Summary of Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2306.4.98
author: sethmanheim
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 07/18/2024
ms.author: sethm

---

# Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2306.4.98

## Summary

- Fixed the **CloudManifest** feature to avoid adding non-self-signed certificates to the root store.
- Fixed an issue in the portal that might send a token to an untrusted domain when modifying custom dashboards.

## Fixes rolled up from previous hotfix releases

- Fixed XSS vulnerability on metadata endpoint.
- Portal framework accessibility fixes and other updates.
- Azure Stack Hub [spoofing vulnerability CVE](https://msrc.microsoft.com/update-guide/vulnerability/CVE-2024-20679).
- This hotfix includes Windows security updates applied to external-facing infrastructure VMs (internal infrastructure VMs that are capable of hosting endpoints external to Azure Stack Hub). The addition of these security updates can potentially increase the hotfix installation time.
- Fixed an issue in NRP in which duplicate IP addresses could be assigned to NICs in some scenarios.

## Hotfix information

To apply this hotfix, you must have version **1.2306.2.47** or later.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> As outlined in the release notes for the [2306 update](release-notes.md?view=azs-2306&preserve-view=true), make sure that you refer to the update activity checklist on running **Test-AzureStack** (with specified parameters), and resolve any operational issues that are found, including all warnings and failures. Also, review active alerts and resolve any that require action.

## File information

Download the following files. Then, follow the instructions in [Apply updates in Azure Stack](azure-stack-apply-updates.md) to apply this update.

[Download the zip file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2306.4.98/HotFix/AzS_Update_1.2306.4.98.zip).

[Download the hotfix xml file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2306.4.98/HotFix/metadata.xml).

## More information

[Azure Stack Hub update resources](azure-stack-updates.md)

[Apply updates in Azure Stack](azure-stack-apply-updates.md)

[Monitor updates in Azure Stack by using the privileged endpoint](azure-stack-monitor-update.md)
