---
title: Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2102.31.153
description: Summary of Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2102.31.153
author: sethmanheim
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 01/04/2023
ms.author: sethm

---

# Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2102.31.153

## Summary

- N/A

## Fixes rolled up from previous hotfix releases

- Improved stability of SDN components.
- Improved the PnP device attached alert and moved it back to Preview.
- Optimized reading of disk IOPS values to support VMs with a large number of data disks.
- CRP will self-heal a VM with a SCSI disk that failed to attach instead of requiring operator removal of the disk from the VM.
- Fixed an issue in VM power-off operation in which CRP service always ignored the value of the non-graceful VM shutdown parameter.
- Fixed an issue that prevented health remediation of the Compute Host Agent service.
- Fixed a bug in incremental disk snapshots in which a failed snapshot can block any future snapshot operation.
- Fixed a mismatched cluster name issue in FRP.
- Fixed an issue that could impact updating to 2108.
- Resolved an issue in which the **Create a Virtual Machine** image dropdown displays image options that are not available or were not downloaded to the stamp.
- Fixed an issue in which the **PrivateWorkingSet** queried value overflows if larger than 4 GB.
- Removed some unnecessary detailed error information on the administrator portal.
- Improvements to support tools.
- Resolved an issue with some Key Vault applications being in an unhealthy state while updating from 2102 to later builds.
- Add retry for **get-volume** requests in **Test-AzureStack** infra capacity check.
- Shorten the "break-glass" tokens and make them human-readable.
- Fixed a bug related to physical disk health when repairing a node with SED drives.
- Improved Datapruner processing to minimize actor timeout alerts.
- Enabled rotation of health agent SSL certificate as part of internal secret rotation.
- Added graphs to Storage area that show volume performance.
- Improved logic for incremental snapshot creation and deletion.
- Improved resiliency in PEP startup script.
- Fixed an issue in which System Center Operations Manager (SCOM) was unable to close operator portal alerts.
- Improved auto-remediation workflow for memory utilization.
- Improved incremental snapshot creation and deletion.
- Addressed an issue in the **Reset-CloudAdminPassword** cmdlet.
- Updated Network Controller to fix bugs in PA VIP allocation and IP-MAC leaks.
- Improved performance when querying for usage data.
- Improved resiliency of compute admin operations.
- Removed overly verbose logging from Software Load Balancer VMs.
- Fixed a memory leak issue and improved memory efficiency for monitoring services.
- Fixed an issue in which the backup blade showed a "rainy" page when backup share was inaccessible.
- Fixed an issue that prevented transcript collection when closing Privileged Endpoint (PEP) session.
- Fixed a multi-tenancy website security issue.
- Improved reliability of update from 2008 to 2102.
- Fix for adding availability set to SQL VM in the SQL VM creation process.
- Fix for setting storage size in SQL VM configuration to more than 1000 GB.
- Fixed group-based authorization errors for users that require group expansion.
- Newer API version support for Key Vault resource provider. The Key Vault control plane supports the **2019-09-01** API version, and the Key Vault data plane supports API version **7.1**.
- Added banner to warn users when a certificate will expire soon.
- Fix to show accurate status of node in portal if a repair operation on it has failed.
- ETW trace sessions are configured to use 16 MB of non-pagedpool memory. Trace sessions now report lost event count (if any) per session, during ETL file rotation in TraceCollector Eventlog. This releases critical non-paged pool memory for other services on hosts and VMs. Also fixed various bugs in Tracecollector.
- Fixed bugs that increased memory pressure on infrastructure.
- Fixed bugs in AD FS and Azure Stack Graph to improve deployment and upgrade reliability.
- Fixed bugs in SRP and DiskRP in which performance counters were missing in the WAC client.
- Fixed a bug in resource provider (for example, Event Hubs) deployment, update, or secret rotation. The operation previously failed with no apparent failure cause. The fix allows the operation to complete successfully.
- Fixed a bug that incorrectly raised a **PnPDevice.Attached** alert for a set of devices (mouse, keyboard, etc.) that were safe.
- Set memory alert to preview.
- Addressed an issue with host agent monitors.
- Fixed a trust relationship issue with container applications in FabricRing.
- Improved **RdAgent** availability by removing empty **RdAgent** files.
- Improved reliability of full update.
- Extended the update readiness checks to cover more Service Fabric health and VM health checks; for example, memory usage and storage disk capacity checks.
- Updated memory configuration for VM sizes **Standard_NC16as_T4_v3** and **Standard_NC64as_T4_v3**.
- Removed legacy SRP SQL instances and DB files to free up stamp resources.
- Fixed a bug in which the cluster status can be stuck in "Configuring Storage" after adding a new node.
- Fixed health package registration, removing duplicate artifact creation.
- Fixed a bug that sometimes caused health blades in the operator portal to become unavailable.
- Fixed a bug in which BCDR runner logs filled up MASLogs folders on physical hosts.
- Added monitoring of WMIProvider health and remediation.
- Added Network Controller IMOS size check to **Test-AzureStack**.
- Fixed a bug in SSL certificate validation during internal secret rotation.
- Fixed process watchdog memory leaks.
- Updated Defender platform to version 4.18.2103.7.
- Enabled the alert module for customers depending on Syslog for alerts. The services will continue to emit alerts to the Syslog pipeline.

## Hotfix information

To apply this hotfix, you must have version **1.2102.28.82** or later.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> As outlined in the release notes for the [2102 update](release-notes.md?view=azs-2102&preserve-view=true), make sure that you refer to the update activity checklist on running **Test-AzureStack** (with specified parameters), and resolve any operational issues that are found, including all warnings and failures. Also, review active alerts and resolve any that require action.

## File information

Download the following files. Then, follow the instructions on the Apply updates in Azure Stack page on the Microsoft Docs website to apply this update to Azure Stack.

[Download the zip file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2102.31.153/HotFix/AzS_Update_1.2102.31.153.zip).

[Download the hotfix xml file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2102.31.153/HotFix/metadata.xml).

## More information

[Azure Stack Hub update resources](azure-stack-updates.md)

[Apply updates in Azure Stack](azure-stack-apply-updates.md)

[Monitor updates in Azure Stack by using the privileged endpoint](azure-stack-monitor-update.md)
