---
title: Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2206.2.77
description: Summary of Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2206.2.77
author: sethmanheim
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 10/19/2023
ms.author: sethm

---

# Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2206.2.77

## Summary

- Fixed an issue in NRP in which duplicate IP addresses could be assigned to NICs in some scenarios.

## Fixes rolled up from previous hotfix releases

- Removed health HTTP metrics from being sent to table server.
- Improved Network Controller stability.
- Fixed bugs in SDN routing by ordering UDRs for better route resolution.
- SRP and DiskRP now include resource tags for billing.
- Fixed usage registration for DRP-deployed services.
- Added PEP cmdlets to enable and disable root hint query when using DNS forwarder.
- Fixed an issue in which the removal of GPU VMs did not update the subscription's GPU resource consumption, causing the GPU quota enforcement to fail on subsequent GPU VM deployments. In other words, if a subscription's compute quota limit for GPUs was N, removing a GPU VM without the fix did not cause the usage to go down by one unit, eventually causing the deployments to fail when the limit was reached, even though there were less than N GPU VMs.
- Decreased maximum length of Graph `ApplicationName` parameter in the PowerShell API to match the maximum length of a Graph application name.
- Authorization changes to Health Agent.
- Improved stability of SDN components.
- Improved the PnP device attached alert and moved it back to Preview.
- Fixed an issue that could cause excessive disk space usage on infra VMs and hosts.
- Fixed an issue in which scaling a VMSS in and out would eventually fill a subnet's IP address space.
- Removed IIS default website to prevent server IP address leak vulnerability.
- Fixed an issue that was blocking the update from 2108 to the 2206 build due to **MetadataServer** being unhealthy.
- Fixed an issue that could lead to a **BlobSasManager** service crash during VM deletion.
- Improvements to support tools.
- Fixed an issue in the Virtual Machine Scale Set portal creation experience that caused the addition of an existing load balancer to fail.
- Removed unsupported **Reapply** feature in the virtual machine portal experience.
- Fixed an issue in which the infrastructure backup information displayed on the portal is not consistent with the alert.
- Improved blob metadata backup stability by skipping unnecessary dependency.
- Optimized reading of disk IOPS values to support VMs with a large number of data disks.
- CRP will self-heal a VM with a SCSI disk that failed to attach instead of requiring operator removal of the disk from the VM.
- Added support for Azure Stack Hub [root certificate rotation](azure-stack-rotate-secrets.md#rotate-internal-secrets).
- Fixed an issue that prevented guest operating system activation of Windows Server 2022.
- Fixed a null reference issue when calling the Compute Resource Provider API to power off a virtual machine without doing a shutdown.
- Fixed stability bugs in Azure Kubernetes Service, reliability issues in usage reporting, and Azure Stack update operations based on availability fixes for an internal settings service.
- Updated AMD GPU driver VM extension with new default driver path.
- Fixed an issue preventing health remediation of the Compute Host Agent service.

## Hotfix information

To apply this hotfix, you must have version **1.2206.0.6** or later.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> As outlined in the release notes for the [2206 update](release-notes.md?view=azs-2206&preserve-view=true), make sure that you refer to the update activity checklist on running **Test-AzureStack** (with specified parameters), and resolve any operational issues that are found, including all warnings and failures. Also, review active alerts and resolve any that require action.

## File information

Download the following files. Then, follow the instructions on the Apply updates in Azure Stack page on the Microsoft Docs website to apply this update to Azure Stack.

[Download the zip file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2206.2.77/HotFix/AzS_Update_1.2206.2.77.zip).

[Download the hotfix xml file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2206.2.77/HotFix/metadata.xml).

## More information

[Azure Stack Hub update resources](azure-stack-updates.md)

[Apply updates in Azure Stack](azure-stack-apply-updates.md)

[Monitor updates in Azure Stack by using the privileged endpoint](azure-stack-monitor-update.md)
