---
title: Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2311.3.61
description: Summary of Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2311.3.61
author: sethmanheim
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 08/13/2024
ms.author: sethm

---

# Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2311.3.61

## Summary

- Fixed bugs causing infrastructure faults.
- Fixed an issue in which users were able to create duplicate and external infrastructure DNS zones.

## Fixes rolled up from previous hotfix releases

- Fixed the **CloudManifest** feature to avoid adding non-self-signed certificates to the root store.
- Fixed an issue in the portal that might send a token to an untrusted domain when modifying custom dashboards.
- Fixed XSS vulnerability on metadata endpoint.
- Fixed an issue that can lead to duplicate infrastructure VMs.
- Azure Stack Hub [spoofing vulnerability CVE](https://msrc.microsoft.com/update-guide/vulnerability/CVE-2024-20679).

## Hotfix information

To apply this hotfix, you must have version **1.2311.1.22** or later.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> As outlined in the release notes for the [2311 update](release-notes.md?view=azs-2311&preserve-view=true), make sure that you refer to the update activity checklist on running **Test-AzureStack** (with specified parameters), and resolve any operational issues that are found, including all warnings and failures. Also, review active alerts and resolve any that require action.

## File information

Download the following files. Then, follow the instructions in [Apply updates in Azure Stack](azure-stack-apply-updates.md) to apply this update.

[Download the zip file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2311.3.61/HotFix/AzS_Update_1.2311.3.61.zip).

[Download the hotfix xml file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2311.3.61/HotFix/metadata.xml).

## More information

[Azure Stack Hub update resources](azure-stack-updates.md)

[Apply updates in Azure Stack](azure-stack-apply-updates.md)

[Monitor updates in Azure Stack by using the privileged endpoint](azure-stack-monitor-update.md)
