---
title: Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2008.41.163
description: Summary of Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2008.41.163
author: sethmanheim
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 06/28/2022
ms.author: sethm

---

# Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2008.41.163

## Summary

- Fixes and performance enhancements.

## Fixes rolled up from previous hotfix releases

- Improvements to support tools.
- Added graphs to Storage area that show volume performance.
- Improved Datapruner processing to minimize actor timeout alerts.
- Improved auto-remediation workflow for memory utilization.
- Addressed an issue in the **Reset-CloudAdminPassword** cmdlet.
- Updated Network Controller to fix bugs in PA VIP allocation and IP-MAC leaks.
- Improved resiliency of PEP startup script.
- Improved performance when querying for usage data.
- Improved resiliency of compute admin operations.
- Removed overly verbose logging from Software Load Balancer VMs.
- Fixed a trust relationship issue for container applications in FabricRing.
- Added banner to warn users when a certificate will expire soon.
- Improved reliability of update from 2008 to 2102.
- Improved reliability of update from 2005 to 2008.
- Improved **RdAgent** availability by removing empty **RdAgent** files.
- Fix for more ghost NIC scenarios when deleting a resource group.
- Fixed an issue that, in rare cases, deleted VNet peerings.
- ETW trace sessions are configured to use 16 MB of non-pagedpool memory. Trace sessions now report lost event count (if any) per session, during ETL file rotation in TraceCollector Eventlog. This releases critical non-paged pool memory for other services on hosts and VMs. Also fixed various bugs in Tracecollector.
- Fixed a bug in resource provider (for example, Event Hubs) deployment, update, or secret rotation. The operation previously failed with no apparent failure cause. The fix allows the operation to complete successfully.
- Extended the update readiness checks to cover more Service Fabric health and VM health checks; for example, memory usage and storage disk capacity checks.
- Fixed bugs that increased memory pressure on infrastructure.
- Fixed bugs that caused operator portal blades to fail to load.
- Improved reliability of Process Watchdog.
- Improved update reliability by adding detection and self-healing for low available memory conditions on ERCS VMs at the beginning of the update orchestration.
- Fixed a bug in which BCDR runner logs fill up MASLogs folders on physical hosts.
- Added monitoring for WMI and remediation.
- Added Network Controller IMOS size check to **Test-AzureStack**.
- Fixed internal secret rotation failures (failing at the NC:Secret rotate step), seen after updating to Azure Stack Hub version 1.2008.25.114 or higher from the latest 2005 release.
- Configured stamp ADFS to monitor corporate ADFS signing certificate rollover. This is for Azure Stack Hub with ADFS identity systems when Azure Stack Hub is configured with corp ADFS and a federation metadata endpoint.
- Fixed alert to remediation linking. Moved memory-critical alert to preview.
- Fixed health package registration, removing duplicate artifact creation.
- Improved reliability of RdAgent upgrade.
- Enhanced idempotent logic in handling malfunctioning TPMs.
- Fixed an issue in which uninstalling some extensions put previously deployed extensions into a failed state.
- Fixed an issue in which duplicate installed updates were shown in the update history list.
- Fixed an intermittent issue in which FRU of SRNG could fail connecting to the ECE agent.
- Fixed VM NICs getting a different hardware identifier after VM is deallocated and restarted.
- Monitored and rebooted VMs based on memory pressure.
- Added `AzsGBRReadiness` in **Test-AzureStack** to check physical disks' health for granular bitmap repair readiness.
- Reactivated firewall rules to enable SNMP traffic on ERCS VMs.
- Fixed an issue in which modifying any properties on the Local Network Gateway was causing other VPN connections on that gateway to disconnect.
- Fixed an issue in which infrastructure VM deployment can fail after applying a hotfix.
- Cleaned up stale user profile folders to clear disk space.
- Fixed an issue in which a secondary blob data partition cannot be loaded in some error cases.
- Fixed some bugs with the use of temporary domain accounts.
- Enhanced temporary domain account naming to ensure uniqueness.
- Patched SDN-related binaries on the physical nodes.
- Improved reliability and diagnosing capabilities of patch and update.
- Added auto-remediation for SQL cluster.
- Updated Healthagent to use Nugetstore.
- Filtered WHS alert for Netadapter.
- Fixed an issue in which the copy of a certificate used by Service Fabric was overwritten.
- Fixed appearance of ghost NICs when deleting a resource group.
- Fixed regression in **Test-AzureStack** that caused VM deployment test case to automatically skip.
- Improved resiliency of VM provisioning, extension, and image operations.
- Fixed an invalid state in Storage resource provider for storage accounts migrated from 1910 with suspended state.
- Fixed a bug in local health system that potentially increased memory pressure on infrastructure.
- Fixed issue in internal secret rotation that would fail with a timeout error if value-add resource providers were unhealthy.
- Fixed a bug in which closed alerts' **Last Modified Time** was updated in the operator portal even if the alert stayed closed.
- Optimized operator alert request handling, which reduces the chance of timeouts when viewing alerts in the operator portal or monitoring them via System Center Operations Manager (SCOM).
- Check and enforce key protectors on cluster shared volumes per host.
- Fixed issue in which Managed Disk usage data was not being reported after the 2008 update.
- Fixed VMs losing connectivity while **SuspendNode** is occurring in MAS, as part of host reboot during patch and update.
- Added PEP to retrieve current registration details, stale object cleanup for **Remove-Registration**.
- Fixed a bug that caused the **Infrastructure Roles** panel in the operator portal to display incorrect health information.
- Improved reliability of log collection for SDN roles by collecting logs on the file share.
- Fixed an issue that can raise an audit scanner health alert in PEP cmdlet.
- Removed invalid repair interface for seedringservices.
- Improved SDN network reliability on the physical nodes.
- Enabled SQL container logs.
- Fixed an issue that erroneously raises an alert: "Node inaccessible for VM Placement."
- Fixed a remote management enabling issue for Azure Stack registrations done prior to 1910 release.
- Improved reliability of host node update.
- Critical fix for disk space exhaustion on physical hosts, network controllers, gateways, and load balancers.
- Fixed remote management resource replication for resource arrays with continuation token.
- Fixed an issue in which a storage account might be partially restored due to a KVS race condition in the SRP background usage job.
- Fixed an issue in which a virtual subnet was not being cleaned up if the tunnel was moved to a different GW VM and then the VGW was deleted.
- Fixed an issue that could cause registration and internal secret rotation to fail.
- Fixed an issue in the internal secret rotation, which might cause a failure in the next update.
- Addressed an issue with internal secret rotation for NRP with a large number of subscriptions.
- Mitigated connection problems to ERCS following startup.
- Mitigated a potential issue with upgrading to future versions.
- Addressed memory leak based on health runners and suppressed faulty alerts.
- Added memory-specific settings to crash dump settings.
- Remediated ERCS memory pressure during patch & update.
- Included **AzsInfraRoleSummary Test-Azurestack** test as **UpdateReadiness**.
- Fixed an issue where certificate rotation on IoT Hub fails with "Internal execution error."

## Hotfix information

To apply this hotfix, you must have version **1.2008.13.88** or later.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> As outlined in the release notes for the [2008 update](release-notes.md?view=azs-2008&preserve-view=true), make sure that you refer to the update activity checklist on running **Test-AzureStack** (with specified parameters), and resolve any operational issues that are found, including all warnings and failures. Also, review active alerts and resolve any that require action.

## More information

[Azure Stack Hub update resources](azure-stack-updates.md)

[Apply updates in Azure Stack](azure-stack-apply-updates.md)

[Monitor updates in Azure Stack by using the privileged endpoint](azure-stack-monitor-update.md)
