---
title: Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2408.1.46
description: Summary of Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2408.1.46
author: sethmanheim
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 06/03/2025
ms.author: sethm

---

# Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2408.1.46

## Summary

- Fixed an issue with scale units that led to health service errors.
- Add nested virtualization support for ESv3 and DSv3 series VM sizes.
- Restart health agent when it's in a stopped state.
- Fixed an issue related to AD FS operations.

## Fixes rolled up from previous hotfix releases

- Fixed an issue in which NRP did not properly release an IP address on VMSS scale-in.
- CVEs for 12B: updated only connected nodes, similar to previous hotfix.
- Fixed an issue in which certain Windows fixes were not correctly enabled on hosts.
- Various security and Windows fixes.
- Fixed an issue with the deployment of large GPU VMs (either **Standard_NC48ads_A100_v4** or **Standard_NC48ads_L40S_v4**), in which the configured **HighMemoryMappedIoGapSize** exceeds the maximum 256 GB allowed by Hyper-V.
- Fixed an issue in which the time to update the host node was significantly extended.

## Hotfix information

To apply this hotfix, you must have version **1.2408.0.19** or later.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> As outlined in the release notes for the [2408 update](release-notes.md?view=azs-2408&preserve-view=true), make sure that you refer to the update activity checklist on running **Test-AzureStack** (with specified parameters), and resolve any operational issues that are found, including all warnings and failures. Also, review active alerts and resolve any that require action.

## File information

Download the following files. Then, follow the instructions in [Apply updates in Azure Stack](azure-stack-apply-updates.md) to apply this update.

[Download the zip file now](https://azurestackhub.download.prss.microsoft.com/dbazure/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2408.1.46/HotFix/AzS_Update_1.2408.1.46.zip).

[Download the hotfix xml file now](https://azurestackhub.download.prss.microsoft.com/dbazure/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2408.1.46/HotFix/metadata.xml).

## More information

[Azure Stack Hub update resources](azure-stack-updates.md)

[Apply updates in Azure Stack](azure-stack-apply-updates.md)

[Monitor updates in Azure Stack by using the privileged endpoint](azure-stack-monitor-update.md)
