---
title: Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2206.2.38
description: Summary of Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2206.2.38
author: sethmanheim
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 08/17/2022
ms.author: sethm

---

# Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2206.2.38

## Summary

- Fixed an issue in the Virtual Machine Scale Set portal creation experience that caused the addition of an existing load balancer to fail.
- Removed unsupported **Reapply** feature in the virtual machine portal experience.
- Fixed an issue in which the infrastructure backup information displayed on the portal is not consistent with the alert.
- Improved blob metadata backup stability by skipping unnecessary dependency.
- Optimized reading of disk IOPS values to support VMs with a large number of data disks.
- CRP will self-heal a VM with a SCSI disk that failed to attach instead of requiring operator removal of the disk from the VM.
- Added support for Azure Stack Hub [root certificate rotation](azure-stack-rotate-secrets.md#rotate-internal-secrets).
- Fixed an issue that prevents guest operating system activation of Windows Server 2022.
- Fixed a null reference issue when calling the Compute Resource Provider API to power off a virtual machine without doing a shutdown.

## Fixes rolled up from previous hotfix releases

- Fixed stability bugs in Azure Kubernetes Service, reliability issues in usage reporting, and Azure Stack update operations based on availability fixes for an internal settings service.
- Updated AMD GPU driver VM extension with new default driver path.
- Fixed an issue preventing health remediation of the Compute Host Agent service.

## Hotfix information

To apply this hotfix, you must have version **1.2206.0.6** or later.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> As outlined in the release notes for the [2108 update](release-notes.md?view=azs-2206&preserve-view=true), make sure that you refer to the update activity checklist on running **Test-AzureStack** (with specified parameters), and resolve any operational issues that are found, including all warnings and failures. Also, review active alerts and resolve any that require action.

## File information

Download the following files. Then, follow the instructions on the Apply updates in Azure Stack page on the Microsoft Docs website to apply this update to Azure Stack.

[Download the zip file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2206.2.38/HotFix/AzS_Update_1.2206.2.38.zip).

[Download the hotfix xml file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2206.2.38/HotFix/metadata.xml).

## More information

[Azure Stack Hub update resources](azure-stack-updates.md)

[Apply updates in Azure Stack](azure-stack-apply-updates.md)

[Monitor updates in Azure Stack by using the privileged endpoint](azure-stack-monitor-update.md)
