---
title: Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2102.28.87 
description: Summary of Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2102.28.87
author: sethmanheim

ms.topic: article
ms.date: 06/21/2021
ms.author: sethm
ms.reviewer: unknown
ms.lastreviewed: 06/21/2021

---

# Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2102.28.87

## Summary

- Updated memory configuration for VM sizes **Standard_NC16as_T4_v3** and **Standard_NC64as_T4_v3**.
- Removed legacy SRP SQL instances and DB files to free up stamp resources.
- Fixed a bug in which the cluster status can be stuck in "Configuring Storage" after adding a new node.
- Fixed health package registration, removing duplicate artifact creation.
- Fixed a bug that sometimes caused health blades in the operator portal to become unavailable.
- Fixed a bug in which BCDR runner logs filled up MASLogs folders on physical hosts.
- Added monitoring of WMIProvider health and remediation.
- Added Network Controller IMOS size check to **Test-AzureStack**.
- Fixed a bug in SSL certificate validation during internal secret rotation.
- Fixed process watchdog memory leaks.
- Updated Defender platform to version 4.18.2103.7.
- Enabled the alert module for customers depending on Syslog for alerts. The services will continue to emit alerts to the Syslog pipeline.

## Hotfix information

To apply this hotfix, you must have version **1.2102.28.82** or later.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> As outlined in the release notes for the [2102 update](release-notes.md?view=azs-2102&preserve-view=true), make sure that you refer to the update activity checklist on running **Test-AzureStack** (with specified parameters), and resolve any operational issues that are found, including all warnings and failures. Also, review active alerts and resolve any that require action.

## File information

Download the following files. Then, follow the instructions on the Apply updates in Azure Stack page on the Microsoft Docs website to apply this update to Azure Stack.

[Download the zip file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2102.28.87/HotFix/AzS_Update_1.2102.28.87.zip).

[Download the hotfix xml file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2102.28.87/HotFix/metadata.xml).

## More information

[Azure Stack Hub update resources](azure-stack-updates.md)

[Apply updates in Azure Stack](azure-stack-apply-updates.md)

[Monitor updates in Azure Stack by using the privileged endpoint](azure-stack-monitor-update.md)
