---
title: Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2008.25.114 
description: Summary of Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2008.25.114
author: sethmanheim

ms.topic: article
ms.date: 02/03/2021
ms.author: sethm
ms.reviewer: sranthar
ms.lastreviewed: 09/09/2020

---

# Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2008.25.114

## Summary

- Fixed issue in internal secret rotation that would fail with a timeout error if value-add resource providers were unhealthy.
- Fixed a bug in which closed alerts' **Last Modified Time** was updated in the operator portal even if the alert stayed closed.
- Optimized operator alert request handling, which reduces the chance of timeouts when viewing alerts in the operator portal or monitoring them via System Center Operations Manager.
- Check and enforce key protectors on cluster shared volumes per host.
- Fixed issue in which Managed Disk usage data was not being reported after the 2008 update.
- Fixed VMs losing connectivity while **SuspendNode** is occurring in MAS, as part of host reboot during patch and update.
- Added PEP to retrieve current registration details, stale object cleanup for **Remove-Registration**.
- Fixed a bug which caused the **Infrastructure Roles** panel in the operator portal to display incorrect health information.
- Improved reliability of log collection for SDN roles by collecting logs on the file share.

## Fixes rolled up from previous hotfix releases

- Fixed an issue that can raise an audit scanner health alert in PEP cmdlet.
- Removed invalid repair interface for seedringservices.
- Improved SDN network reliability on the physical nodes.
- Enabled SQL container logs.
- Fixed an issue that erroneously raises an alert: “Node inaccessible for VM Placement."
- Fixed a remote management enabling issue for Azure Stack registrations done prior to 1910 release.
- Improved reliability of host node update.
- Critical fix for disk space exhaustion on physical hosts, network controllers, gateways, and load balancers.
- Fixed remote management resource replication for resource arrays with continuation token.
- Fixed an issue in which a storage account might be partially restored due to a KVS race condition in the SRP background usage job.
- Fixed an issue in which a virtual subnet was not being cleaned up if the tunnel was moved to a different GW VM and then the VGW was deleted.
- Fixed an issue that could cause registration and internal secret rotation to fail.
- Fixed an issue in the internal secret rotation, which might cause a failure in the next update.
- Addressed an issue with internal secret rotation for NRP with a large number of subscriptions.
- Mitigated connection problems to ERCS following startup.
- Mitigated a potential issue with upgrading to future versions.
- Addressed memory leak based on health runners and suppressed faulty alerts.
- Added memory specific settings to crash dump settings.
- Remediated ERCS memory pressure during patch & update.
- Included **AzsInfraRoleSummary Test-Azurestack** test as **UpdateReadiness**.
- Fixed an issue where certificate rotation on IoT Hub fails with “Internal execution error.”

## Hotfix information

To apply this hotfix, you must have version **1.2008.13.88** or later.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> As outlined in the release notes for the [2008 update](release-notes.md?view=azs-2008&preserve-view=true), make sure that you refer to the update activity checklist on running **Test-AzureStack** (with specified parameters), and resolve any operational issues that are found, including all warnings and failures. Also, review active alerts and resolve any that require action.

## File information

Download the following files. Then, follow the instructions on the Apply updates in Azure Stack page on the Microsoft Docs website to apply this update to Azure Stack.

[Download the zip file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_HotFix_1.2008.25.114/HotFix/AzS_Update_1.2008.25.114.zip).

[Download the hotfix xml file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_HotFix_1.2008.25.114/HotFix/metadata.xml).

## More information

[Azure Stack Hub update resources](azure-stack-updates.md)

[Apply updates in Azure Stack](azure-stack-apply-updates.md)

[Monitor updates in Azure Stack by using the privileged endpoint](azure-stack-monitor-update.md)