---
title: Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2301.3.97
description: Summary of Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2301.3.97
author: sethmanheim
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 07/18/2024
ms.author: sethm

---

# Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2301.3.97

## Summary

- Fixed the **CloudManifest** feature to avoid adding non-self-signed certificates to the root store.
- Fixed an issue in the portal that might send a token to an untrusted domain when modifying custom dashboards.

## Fixes rolled up from previous hotfix releases

- Fixed XSS vulnerability on metadata endpoint.
- Portal framework accessibility fixes and other updates.
- Azure Stack Hub [spoofing vulnerability CVE](https://msrc.microsoft.com/update-guide/vulnerability/CVE-2024-20679).
- Fixed an issue in NRP in which duplicate IP addresses could be assigned to NICs in some scenarios.
- Upgraded portal to version 9.393.0.
- Fixed a persistent portal cache issue that impacted portal loading.
- Removed unused health metrics from table server.
- Improved Network Controller stability.
- Bug fixes in SDN routing by ordering UDRs for better route resolution.
- PMC now returns the correct count for CPU cores on the physical host
- SRP and DiskRP include resource tags for billing.
- CRP now returns an error when creating a VM with invalid Chinese characters.
- CRP automatically extends VM guest agent encryption certificates 90 days before expiry.
- Fixed `Set-ServiceAdminUpn` PEP cmdlet.
- Azure Resource Manager ETW events redundancy fix.
- Authorization changes to health agent.

## Hotfix information

To apply this hotfix, you must have version **1.2301.2.58** or later.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> As outlined in the release notes for the [2301 update](release-notes.md?view=azs-2301&preserve-view=true), make sure that you refer to the update activity checklist on running **Test-AzureStack** (with specified parameters), and resolve any operational issues that are found, including all warnings and failures. Also, review active alerts and resolve any that require action.

## File information

Download the following files. Then, follow the instructions on the Apply updates in Azure Stack page on the Microsoft Docs website to apply this update to Azure Stack.

[Download the zip file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2301.3.97/HotFix/AzS_Update_1.2301.3.97.zip).

[Download the hotfix xml file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2301.3.97/HotFix/metadata.xml).

## More information

[Azure Stack Hub update resources](azure-stack-updates.md)

[Apply updates in Azure Stack](azure-stack-apply-updates.md)

[Monitor updates in Azure Stack by using the privileged endpoint](azure-stack-monitor-update.md)
