---
title: Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2406.1.23
description: Summary of Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2406.1.23
author: sethmanheim
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 06/27/2025
ms.author: sethm

---

# Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2406.1.23

## Summary

- Added support for HealthAgent remediation action plan.
- Fixed an issue related to AD FS operations.
- Addressed an issue in which a system component, under specific conditions, might inadvertently disclose internal configuration details.
- Fixed various portal issues.

## Fixes rolled up from previous hotfix releases

- Fixed an issue in which certain Windows fixes were not correctly enabled on hosts.
- Fixed an issue in which NRP did not properly release an IP address on VMSS scale-in.
- Fixed a bug in large L40S GPU VMs.
- Fixed a bug in JEA endpoint configuration.
- Fixed a bug in **Test-AzureStack** related to storage in all-flash systems.
- Fixed an issue to prevent a hotfix from a previous release from showing as an applicable update.
- Fixed an issue with DNS zone creation in SQL and MySQL resource providers.
- Fixed an issue in which users were able to create duplicate and external infrastructure DNS zones.

## Hotfix information

To apply this hotfix, you must have version **1.2406.0.08** or later.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> As outlined in the release notes for the [2406 update](release-notes.md?view=azs-2406&preserve-view=true), make sure that you refer to the update activity checklist on running **Test-AzureStack** (with specified parameters), and resolve any operational issues that are found, including all warnings and failures. Also, review active alerts and resolve any that require action.

## File information

Download the following files. Then, follow the instructions in [Apply updates in Azure Stack](azure-stack-apply-updates.md) to apply this update.

[Download the zip file now](https://azurestackhub.download.prss.microsoft.com/dbazure/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2406.1.23/HotFix/AzS_Update_1.2406.1.23.zip).

[Download the hotfix xml file now](https://azurestackhub.download.prss.microsoft.com/dbazure/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2406.1.23/HotFix/metadata.xml).

## More information

[Azure Stack Hub update resources](azure-stack-updates.md)

[Apply updates in Azure Stack](azure-stack-apply-updates.md)

[Monitor updates in Azure Stack by using the privileged endpoint](azure-stack-monitor-update.md)
