---
title: Azure Stack Hub Hotfix 1.2005.30.102
description: Summary of Azure Stack Hub Hotfix 1.2005.30.102
author: sethmanheim

ms.topic: article
ms.date: 02/16/2021
ms.author: sethm
ms.reviewer: sranthar
ms.lastreviewed: 09/09/2020

---

# Azure Stack Hub Hotfix 1.2005.30.102

## Summary

- Fixed an invalid state in Storage resource provider for storage accounts migrated from 1910 with suspended state.
- Improved resiliency of VM provisioning, extension, and image operations.

## Fixes rolled up from previous hotfix releases

- Added PEP to retrieve current registration details, stale object cleanup for **Remove-Registration**.
- Improved reliability of log collection for SDN roles by collecting on file share.
- Fixed an issue that erroneously raises an alert: “Node inaccessible for VM Placement."
- Removed invalid repair interface for **seedringservices**.
- Improved SDN network reliability on the physical nodes.
- Disabled **winrrm** runner
- Fixed a bug check and enforced external key protectors on cluster shared volumes.
- Fixed an issue in which a storage account might be partially restored due to a KVS race condition in the SRP background usage job.
- Fixed an issue in which a virtual subnet was not being cleaned up if the tunnel was moved to a different GW VM and then the VGW was deleted.
- Fixed an issue that could cause registration and internal secret rotation to fail.
- Fixed an issue in the internal secret rotation, which might cause a failure in the next update.
- Added memory specific settings to crash dump settings.
- Restarted SQL VMs to mitigate potential issue with database access which affects access to portal.
- Remediated SMB handle invalidation issue triggered by ESENT error 59 event in TableServer.
- Included **AzsInfraRoleSummary Test-Azurestack** test as UpdateReadiness.
- Remediated ERCS memory pressure during patch & update.
- Include deployment provider identity certificate into the internal secret rotation.
- Improved Network Controller stability.
- Increased Network Controller log retention to aid in diagnosis.
- Added **Get-NetView** as a part of **Get-AzureStackLog** collection by default.
- Fixed an issue where marketplace downloads could fail due to a certificate validation error.
- Improved HealthAgent binary switchover logic.
- Improved cluster shared volumes re-balance after Patch & Update (PnU).
- Used ADSI to fetch localgroup members in **HealthAgent**.
- Added the missing records, when WASP VMs fail to synchronize records and zones by using DNS cmdlet during scale in and scale out.
- Improved storage service reliability during PnU.
- Removed public IP quota validation which caused an issue when creating an internal load balancer.
- Improved reliability of VM deletion: ensure new VMs that could not be fully created or added to the cluster are deleted.
- Check and enforce key protectors on cluster shared volumes.
- Fixed "access denied" issue causing update and admin operations to fail.
- Fixed WhsFaultScanner to re-launch when it gets stuck to make sure alerts are correctly generated for users.
- Fixed orchestration bug that prevented storage regeneration telemetry events from being emitted.
- Fixed an issue which impacted the reliability of downloading subsequent updates.
- Improved ability to diagnose failures based on orchestrator telemetry.
- Fixed SRP race condition in moving system storage accounts to system internal subscription during 2005 PnU.
- Fixed time unit scaling error in the server latency metrics
- Restarted SQL VMs to mitigate potential issue with database access which affects access to portal.
- Fixed an issue in which the configuration of the retention period for deleted storage accounts was reverted.
- Improved reliability of storage blob and table service.
- Addressed issue in the **Send-AzureStackDiagnosticLog** PEP cmdlet.
- Increased the HRP repair time when an update failure occurs.

## Hotfix information

To apply this hotfix, you must have version **1.2005.6.53** or later.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> As outlined in the release notes for the [2005 update](release-notes.md?view=azs-2005&preserve-view=true), make sure that you refer to the update activity checklist on running **Test-AzureStack** (with specified parameters), and resolve any operational issues that are found, including all warnings and failures. Also, review active alerts and resolve any that require action.

## File information

Download the following files. Then, follow the instructions on the Apply updates in Azure Stack page on the Microsoft Docs website to apply this update to Azure Stack.

[Download the zip file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_HotFix_1.2005.30.102/HotFix/AzS_Update_1.2005.30.102.zip).

[Download the hotfix xml file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_HotFix_1.2005.30.102/HotFix/metadata.xml).

## More information

[Azure Stack Hub update resources](azure-stack-updates.md)

[Apply updates in Azure Stack](azure-stack-apply-updates.md)

[Monitor updates in Azure Stack by using the privileged endpoint](azure-stack-monitor-update.md)