---
title: Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2108.2.130
description: Summary of Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2108.2.130
author: sethmanheim
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 01/04/2023
ms.author: sethm

---

# Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2108.2.130

## Summary

- Improved the exception handling in Cluster Manager to avoid false memory exhaustion alerts.
- Added labels for on-demand log collection when "infrastructure service unavailable" alert is generated.
- Improvements to support tools.
- Fixed bug in storage table re-encryption, which was causing secret rotation to fail.
- Fixed an issue in which the **BlobSasManager** service might crash during VM deletion.
- Support for the `.default` scope has been added to AD FS. Now the client libraries supporting the OAUTH 2.0 flow can be used against AD FS environments.

## Fixes rolled up from previous hotfix releases

- Improved stability of SDN components.
- Improved the PnP device attached alert and moved it back to preview.
- Introduced health probe for **SecretService** to improve service resilience and availability.
- Fixed an issue in which scaling a VMSS in and out would eventually fill a subnet's IP address space.
- Optimized reading of disk IOPS values to support VMs with a large number of data disks.
- CRP now self-heals a VM with a SCSI disk that failed to attach, instead of requiring operator removal of the disk from the VM.
- Removed IIS default website to prevent server IP address leak vulnerability.
- Fixed an issue in the Virtual Machine Scale Set portal creation experience that caused the addition of an existing load balancer to fail.
- Removed unsupported **Reapply** feature in the virtual machine portal experience.
- Fixed an issue in which the SRP container portal cannot display more than 1 page of containers.
- Fixed an issue with searching for a container by prefix in the SRP container portal.
- Improved blob metadata backup stability by skipping unnecessary dependency.
- Added support for Azure Stack Hub [root certificate rotation](azure-stack-rotate-secrets.md#rotate-internal-secrets).
- Fixed an issue that prevented guest operating system activation of Windows Server 2022.
- Fixed a null reference issue when calling the Compute Resource Provider API to power off a virtual machine without doing a shutdown.
- Fixed an issue in which some **StorageController** requests might time out under high concurrency.
- Removed some of the network performance counters and reduced collection interval for other perf counters.
- Cleaned up unneeded networking traces from Baremetal, NC and XRP VMs.
- Fixed an issue deleting **Microsoft.ContainerService/managedCluster** resources that occurred when resources managed by the AKS resource provider were manually deleted beforehand.
- Fixed a regression in which VM status is reported as **UNKNOWN** in the portal.
- Fixed an issue that could impact updating from 2102 to 2108.
- Support for new Kubernetes versions in AKS.
- Fixed bugs in trace collector.
- Fixed a bug related to physical disk health when repairing a node with SED drives.
- Improvements to support tools.
- Fixed bugs in log collection.
- Fixed code defect leading to VM deployment failures.
- Improved the resolution of the Network Resource Provider.
- Fixed a bug in incremental disk snapshots in which a failed snapshot can block any future snapshot operations.
- Fixed a disk snapshot failure and VM IO hang when taking snapshots.
- Shortened the PEP tokens and made them human-readable.
- Fix to improve SLB throughput after enabling Simultaneous Multi-Threading (SMT).
- Fixed an issue in which the table service partition was offline when its underlying storage was out of space.
- Added retry logic around **Get-Volume** calls in **Test-AzureStack** InfraCapacity validation.

## Hotfix information

To apply this hotfix, you must have version **1.2108.2.65** or later.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> As outlined in the release notes for the [2108 update](release-notes.md?view=azs-2108&preserve-view=true), make sure that you refer to the update activity checklist on running **Test-AzureStack** (with specified parameters), and resolve any operational issues that are found, including all warnings and failures. Also, review active alerts and resolve any that require action.

## File information

Download the following files. Then, follow the instructions on the Apply updates in Azure Stack page on the Microsoft Docs website to apply this update to Azure Stack.

[Download the zip file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2108.2.130/HotFix/AzS_Update_1.2108.2.130.zip).

[Download the hotfix xml file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2108.2.130/HotFix/metadata.xml).

## More information

[Azure Stack Hub update resources](azure-stack-updates.md)

[Apply updates in Azure Stack](azure-stack-apply-updates.md)

[Monitor updates in Azure Stack by using the privileged endpoint](azure-stack-monitor-update.md)
