---
title: Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2102.28.89
description: Summary of Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2102.28.89
author: sethmanheim

ms.topic: article
ms.date: 07/06/2021
ms.author: sethm
ms.reviewer: unknown
ms.lastreviewed: 07/06/2021

---

# Azure Stack Hub hotfix 1.2102.28.89

## Summary

- ETW trace sessions are configured to use 16 MB of non-pagedpool memory. Trace sessions now report lost event count (if any) per session, during ETL file rotation in TraceCollector Eventlog. This releases critical non-paged pool memory for other services on hosts and VMs. Also fixed various bugs in Tracecollector.
- Fixed bugs that increased memory pressure on infrastructure.
- Fixed bugs in AD FS and Azure Stack Graph to improve deployment and upgrade reliability.
- Fixed bugs in SRP and DiskRP in which performance counters were missing in the WAC client.
- Fixed a bug in resource provider (for example, Event Hubs) deployment, update, or secret rotation. The operation previously failed with no apparent failure cause. The fix allows the operation to complete successfully.
- Fixed a bug that incorrectly raised a **PnPDevice.Attached** alert for a set of devices (mouse, keyboard, etc.) that were safe.
- Set memory alert to preview.
- Addressed an issue with host agent monitors.
- Fixed a trust relationship issue with container applications in FabricRing.
- Improved **RdAgent** availability by removing empty **RdAgent** files.
- Improved reliability of full update.
- Extended the update readiness checks to cover more Service Fabric health and VM health checks; for example, memory usage and storage disk capacity checks.

## Fixes rolled up from previous hotfix releases

- Updated memory configuration for VM sizes **Standard_NC16as_T4_v3** and **Standard_NC64as_T4_v3**.
- Removed legacy SRP SQL instances and DB files to free up stamp resources.
- Fixed a bug in which the cluster status can be stuck in "Configuring Storage" after adding a new node.
- Fixed health package registration, removing duplicate artifact creation.
- Fixed a bug that sometimes caused health blades in the operator portal to become unavailable.
- Fixed a bug in which BCDR runner logs filled up MASLogs folders on physical hosts.
- Added monitoring of WMIProvider health and remediation.
- Added Network Controller IMOS size check to **Test-AzureStack**.
- Fixed a bug in SSL certificate validation during internal secret rotation.
- Fixed process watchdog memory leaks.
- Updated Defender platform to version 4.18.2103.7.
- Enabled the alert module for customers depending on Syslog for alerts. The services will continue to emit alerts to the Syslog pipeline.

## Hotfix information

To apply this hotfix, you must have version **1.2102.28.87** or later.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> As outlined in the release notes for the [2102 update](release-notes.md?view=azs-2102&preserve-view=true), make sure that you refer to the update activity checklist on running **Test-AzureStack** (with specified parameters), and resolve any operational issues that are found, including all warnings and failures. Also, review active alerts and resolve any that require action.

## File information

Download the following files. Then, follow the instructions on the Apply updates in Azure Stack page on the Microsoft Docs website to apply this update to Azure Stack.

[Download the zip file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2102.28.89/HotFix/AzS_Update_1.2102.28.89.zip).

[Download the hotfix xml file now](https://azurestackhub.azureedge.net/PR/download/MAS_ProdHotfix_1.2102.28.89/HotFix/metadata.xml).

## More information

[Azure Stack Hub update resources](azure-stack-updates.md)

[Apply updates in Azure Stack](azure-stack-apply-updates.md)

[Monitor updates in Azure Stack by using the privileged endpoint](azure-stack-monitor-update.md)
