azure-stack/operator/known-issues.md, before:

---
title: Azure Stack Hub known issues 
description: Learn about known issues in Azure Stack Hub releases.
author: sethmanheim

ms.topic: article
ms.date: 01/06/2021
ms.author: sethm
ms.reviewer: sranthar
ms.lastreviewed: 09/09/2020

# Intent: As an Azure Stack Hub user, I want to know about known issues in the latest release so that I can plan my update and be aware of any issues.
# Keyword: Notdone: keyword noun phrase

---


# Azure Stack Hub known issues

This article lists known issues in Azure Stack Hub releases. The list is updated as new issues are identified.

To access known issues for a different version, use the version selector dropdown above the table of contents on the left.

::: moniker range=">=azs-2005"
> [!IMPORTANT]  
> Review this section before applying the update.
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="<azs-2005"
> [!IMPORTANT]  
> If your Azure Stack Hub instance is behind by more than two updates, it's considered out of compliance. You must [update to at least the minimum supported version to receive support](azure-stack-servicing-policy.md#keep-your-system-under-support). 
::: moniker-end

<!---------------------------------------------------------->
<!------------------- SUPPORTED VERSIONS ------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------->

::: moniker range="azs-2011"
## Update

For known Azure Stack Hub update issues, see [Troubleshooting Updates in Azure Stack Hub](azure-stack-troubleshooting.md#troubleshoot-azure-stack-hub-updates).

<!-- ## Portal -->

<!-- ## Networking -->

<!-- ## Compute -->

<!-- ## Storage -->

<!-- ## SQL and MySQL-->

<!-- ## App Service -->

<!-- ## Usage -->

<!-- ### Identity -->

<!-- ### Marketplace -->
::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="azs-2008"
## Update

For known Azure Stack Hub update issues, see [Troubleshooting Updates in Azure Stack Hub](azure-stack-troubleshooting.md#troubleshoot-azure-stack-hub-updates).

### Update failed to install package Microsoft.AzureStack.Compute.Installer to CA VM

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: During update, a process takes a lock on the new content that needs to be copied to CA VM. When the update fails, the lock is released.
- Remediation: Resume the update.
- Occurrence: Rare

## Portal

### Administrative subscriptions

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: The two administrative subscriptions that were introduced with version 1804 should not be used. The subscription types are **Metering** subscription, and **Consumption** subscription.
- Remediation: If you have resources running on these two subscriptions, recreate them in user subscriptions.
- Occurrence: Common

## Networking

### Network Security Groups

#### DenyAllOutbound rule cannot be created

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: An explicit **DenyAllOutbound** rule to the internet cannot be created in an NSG during VM creation as this will prevent the communication required for the VM deployment to complete. It will also deny the two essential IPs that are required in order to deploy VMs: DHCP IP:169.254.169.254 and DNS IP: 168.63.129.16.

- Remediation: Allow outbound traffic to the internet during VM creation, and modify the NSG to block the required traffic after VM creation is complete.
- Occurrence: Common

### Virtual Network Gateway

#### Documentation

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: The documentation links in the overview page of Virtual Network gateway link to Azure-specific documentation instead of Azure Stack Hub. Use the following links for the Azure Stack Hub documentation:

  - [Gateway SKUs](../user/azure-stack-vpn-gateway-about-vpn-gateways.md#gateway-skus)
  - [Highly Available Connections](../user/azure-stack-vpn-gateway-about-vpn-gateways.md#gateway-availability)
  - [Configure BGP on Azure Stack Hub](../user/azure-stack-vpn-gateway-settings.md#gateway-requirements)
  - [ExpressRoute circuits](azure-stack-connect-expressroute.md)
  - [Specify custom IPsec/IKE policies](../user/azure-stack-vpn-gateway-settings.md#ipsecike-parameters)

### Load Balancer

#### Load Balancer directing traffic to one backend VM in specific scenarios

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases. 
- Cause: When enabling **Session Affinity** on a load balancer, the 2 tuple hash utilizes the PA IP (Physical Address IP) instead of the private IPs assigned to the VMs. In scenarios where traffic directed to the load balancer arrives through a VPN, or if all the client VMs (source IPs) reside on the same node and Session Affinity is enabled, all traffic is directed to one backend VM.
- Occurrence: Common

<!-- ## Compute -->

<!-- ## Storage -->
<!-- ## SQL and MySQL-->
<!-- ## App Service -->
<!-- ## Usage -->
<!-- ### Identity -->
<!-- ### Marketplace -->
::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="azs-2005"
## Update

For known Azure Stack Hub update issues, see [Troubleshooting Updates in Azure Stack Hub](azure-stack-troubleshooting.md#troubleshoot-azure-stack-hub-updates).

### Update failed to install package Microsoft.AzureStack.Compute.Installer to CA VM

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: During update, a process takes a lock on the new content that needs to be copied to CA VM. When the update fails, the lock is released.
- Remediation: Resume the update.
- Occurrence: Rare

## Portal

### Administrative subscriptions

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: The two administrative subscriptions that were introduced with version 1804 should not be used. The subscription types are **Metering** subscription, and **Consumption** subscription.
- Remediation: If you have resources running on these two subscriptions, recreate them in user subscriptions.
- Occurrence: Common

## Networking

### Network Security Groups

#### Cannot delete an NSG if NICs not attached to running VM

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: When disassociating an NSG and a NIC that is not attached to a running VM, the update (PUT) operation for that object fails at the network controller layer. The NSG will be updated at the network resource provider layer, but not on the network controller, so the NSG moves to a failed state.
- Remediation: Attach the NICs associated to the NSG that needs to be removed with running VMs, and disassociate the NSG or remove all the NICs that were associated with the NSG.
- Occurrence: Common

#### DenyAllOutbound rule cannot be created

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: An explicit **DenyAllOutbound** rule to the internet cannot be created in an NSG during VM creation as this will prevent the communication required for the VM deployment to complete.
- Remediation: Allow outbound traffic to the internet during VM creation, and modify the NSG to block the required traffic after VM creation is complete.
- Occurrence: Common

### Virtual Network Gateway

#### Documentation

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: The documentation links in the overview page of Virtual Network gateway link to Azure-specific documentation instead of Azure Stack Hub. Use the following links for the Azure Stack Hub documentation:

  - [Gateway SKUs](../user/azure-stack-vpn-gateway-about-vpn-gateways.md#gateway-skus)
  - [Highly Available Connections](../user/azure-stack-vpn-gateway-about-vpn-gateways.md#gateway-availability)
  - [Configure BGP on Azure Stack Hub](../user/azure-stack-vpn-gateway-settings.md#gateway-requirements)
  - [ExpressRoute circuits](azure-stack-connect-expressroute.md)
  - [Specify custom IPsec/IKE policies](../user/azure-stack-vpn-gateway-settings.md#ipsecike-parameters)
  
### Load Balancer

#### Load Balancer directing traffic to one backend VM in specific scenarios

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases. 
- Cause: When enabling **Session Affinity** on a load balancer, the 2 tuple hash utilizes the PA IP (Physical Address IP) instead of the private IPs assigned to the VMs. In scenarios where traffic directed to the load balancer arrives through a VPN, or if all the client VMs (source IPs) reside on the same node and Session Affinity is enabled, all traffic is directed to one backend VM.
- Occurrence: Common

#### Public IP

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: The **IdleTimeoutInMinutes** value for a public IP that is associated to a load balancer cannot be changed. The operation puts the public IP into a failed state.
- Remediation: To bring the public IP back into a successful state, change the **IdleTimeoutInMinutes** value on the load balancer rule that references the public IP back to the original value (the default is 4 minutes).
- Occurrence: Common

## Compute

### Issues deploying virtual machine scale set with Standard_DS2_v2 size using the portal

- Applicable: This issue applies to the 2005 release.
- Cause: A portal bug causes scale set creation with Standard_DS2_v2 size to fail.
- Remediation: Use PowerShell or CLI to deploy this virtual machine scale set VM size.

### Issues using VM extensions in Ubuntu Server 20.04

- Applicable: This issue applies to **Ubuntu Server 20.04 LTS**.
- Cause: Some Linux distributions have transitioned to Python 3.8 and removed the legacy `/usr/bin/python` entrypoint for Python altogether. Linux distribution users who have transitioned to Python 3.x must ensure the legacy `/usr/bin/python` entry point exists before attempting to deploy those extensions to their VMs. Otherwise, the extension deployment might fail.
- Remediation: Follow the resolution steps in [Issues using VM extensions in Python 3-enabled Linux Azure Virtual Machines systems](/azure/virtual-machines/extensions/issues-using-vm-extensions-python-3) but skip step 2, because Azure Stack Hub does not have the **Run command** functionality.

### NVv4 VM size on portal

- Applicable: This issue applies to 2002 and later.
- Cause: When going through the VM creation experience, you will see the VM size: NV4as_v4. Customers who have the hardware required for the AMD MI25-based Azure Stack Hub GPU preview are able to have a successful VM deployment. All other customers will have a failed VM deployment with this VM size.
- Remediation: By design in preparation for the Azure Stack Hub GPU preview.

### Consumed compute quota

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: When creating a new virtual machine, you may receive an error such as **This subscription is at capacity for Total Regional vCPUs on this location. This subscription is using all 50 Total Regional vCPUs available.**. This indicates that the quota for total cores available to you has been reached.
- Remediation: Ask your operator for an add-on plan with additional quota. Editing the current plan's quota will not work or reflect increased quota.
- Occurrence: Rare

### VM overview blade does not show correct computer name

- Applicable: This issue applies to all releases.
- Cause: When viewing details of a VM in the overview blade, the computer name shows as **(not available)**. This is by design for VMs created from specialized disks/disk snapshots, and appears for Marketplace images as well.
- Remediation: View the **Properties** blade under **Settings**.

### Virtual machine scale set

#### Create failures during patch and update on 4-node Azure Stack Hub environments

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: Creating VMs in an availability set of 3 fault domains and creating a virtual machine scale set instance fails with a **FabricVmPlacementErrorUnsupportedFaultDomainSize** error during the update process on a 4-node Azure Stack Hub environment.
- Remediation: You can create single VMs in an availability set with 2 fault domains successfully. However, scale set instance creation is still not available during the update process on a 4-node Azure Stack Hub deployment.

## Storage

### Retention period reverts to 0

- Applicable: This issue applies to releases 2002 and 2005.
- Cause: If you specify a time period other than 0 in the retention period setting, it reverts to 0 (the default value of this setting) during the 2002 or 2005 update. The 0 days setting takes effect immediately after the update finishes, which causes all existing deleted storage accounts and any upcoming newly deleted storage accounts to be immediately out of retention and marked for periodic garbage collection (which runs hourly).
- Remediation: Manually specify the retention period to a correct period. Any storage account that has already been garbage collected before the new retention period is specified, is not recoverable.  

## Resource providers

### SQL/MySQL

- Applicable: This issue applies to release 2002.
- Cause: If the stamp contains SQL resource provider (RP) version 1.1.33.0 or earlier, upon update of the stamp, the blades for SQL/MySQL do not load.
- Remediation: Update the RP to version 1.1.47.0.

### App Service

- Applicable: This issue applies to release 2002.
- Cause: If the stamp contains App Service resource provider (RP) version 1.7 and older, upon update of the stamp, the blades for App Service do not load.
- Remediation: Update the RP to version 2002 Q2.

## PowerShell

[!Include[Known issue for install - one](../includes/known-issue-az-install-1.md)]

[!Include[Known issue for install - two](../includes/known-issue-az-install-2.md)]

<!-- ## Storage -->
<!-- ## SQL and MySQL-->
<!-- ## App Service -->
<!-- ## Usage -->
<!-- ### Identity -->
<!-- ### Marketplace -->
::: moniker-end

::: moniker range=">=azs-2005"
## Archive

To access archived known issues for an older version, use the version selector dropdown above the table of contents on the left, and select the version you want to see.

## Next steps

- [Review update activity checklist](release-notes-checklist.md)
- [Review list of security updates](release-notes-security-updates.md)
::: moniker-end

<!------------------------------------------------------------>
<!------------------- UNSUPPORTED VERSIONS ------------------->
<!------------------------------------------------------------>
::: moniker range="azs-2002"
## 2002 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1910"
## 1910 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1908"
## 1908 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1907"
## 1907 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1906"
## 1906 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1905"
## 1905 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1904"
## 1904 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1903"
## 1903 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1902"
## 1902 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1901"
## 1901 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1811"
## 1811 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1809"
## 1809 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1808"
## 1808 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1807"
## 1807 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1805"
## 1805 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1804"
## 1804 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1803"
## 1803 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1802"
## 1802 archived known issues
::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="<azs-2005"
You can access [older versions of Azure Stack Hub known issues on the TechNet Gallery](https://aka.ms/azsarchivedrelnotes). These archived documents are provided for reference purposes only and do not imply support for these versions. For information about Azure Stack Hub support, see [Azure Stack Hub servicing policy](azure-stack-servicing-policy.md). For further assistance, contact Microsoft Customer Support Services.
::: moniker-end

Commit message:

Edited Networking known issues
Removed NSG and Load Balancer known issues as they are fixed in 2011. 
Added a new portal known issue for networking.

azure-stack/operator/known-issues.md, after:

---
title: Azure Stack Hub known issues 
description: Learn about known issues in Azure Stack Hub releases.
author: sethmanheim

ms.topic: article
ms.date: 01/06/2021
ms.author: sethm
ms.reviewer: sranthar
ms.lastreviewed: 09/09/2020

# Intent: As an Azure Stack Hub user, I want to know about known issues in the latest release so that I can plan my update and be aware of any issues.
# Keyword: Notdone: keyword noun phrase

---


# Azure Stack Hub known issues

This article lists known issues in Azure Stack Hub releases. The list is updated as new issues are identified.

To access known issues for a different version, use the version selector dropdown above the table of contents on the left.

::: moniker range=">=azs-2005"
> [!IMPORTANT]  
> Review this section before applying the update.
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="<azs-2005"
> [!IMPORTANT]  
> If your Azure Stack Hub instance is behind by more than two updates, it's considered out of compliance. You must [update to at least the minimum supported version to receive support](azure-stack-servicing-policy.md#keep-your-system-under-support). 
::: moniker-end

<!---------------------------------------------------------->
<!------------------- SUPPORTED VERSIONS ------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------->

::: moniker range="azs-2011"
## Update

For known Azure Stack Hub update issues, see [Troubleshooting Updates in Azure Stack Hub](azure-stack-troubleshooting.md#troubleshoot-azure-stack-hub-updates).

<!-- ## Portal -->

<!-- ## Networking -->

<!-- ## Compute -->

<!-- ## Storage -->

<!-- ## SQL and MySQL-->

<!-- ## App Service -->

<!-- ## Usage -->

<!-- ### Identity -->

<!-- ### Marketplace -->
::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="azs-2008"
## Update

For known Azure Stack Hub update issues, see [Troubleshooting Updates in Azure Stack Hub](azure-stack-troubleshooting.md#troubleshoot-azure-stack-hub-updates).

### Update failed to install package Microsoft.AzureStack.Compute.Installer to CA VM

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: During update, a process takes a lock on the new content that needs to be copied to CA VM. When the update fails, the lock is released.
- Remediation: Resume the update.
- Occurrence: Rare

## Portal

### Administrative subscriptions

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: The two administrative subscriptions that were introduced with version 1804 should not be used. The subscription types are **Metering** subscription, and **Consumption** subscription.
- Remediation: If you have resources running on these two subscriptions, recreate them in user subscriptions.
- Occurrence: Common

## Networking

### Admin and Tenant Portal

#### IPv6 button visible on 'Add frontend IP address' on a Load Balancer
- Applicable: This issue applied to releases 2011 and above.
- Cause: IP versions IPv4 and IPv6 buttons are visible on the Add frontend IP address on a load balancer. These buttons are disabled and cannot be selected. 
- Occurrence: Common

### Virtual Network Gateway

#### Documentation

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: The documentation links in the overview page of Virtual Network gateway link to Azure-specific documentation instead of Azure Stack Hub. Use the following links for the Azure Stack Hub documentation:

  - [Gateway SKUs](../user/azure-stack-vpn-gateway-about-vpn-gateways.md#gateway-skus)
  - [Highly Available Connections](../user/azure-stack-vpn-gateway-about-vpn-gateways.md#gateway-availability)
  - [Configure BGP on Azure Stack Hub](../user/azure-stack-vpn-gateway-settings.md#gateway-requirements)
  - [ExpressRoute circuits](azure-stack-connect-expressroute.md)
  - [Specify custom IPsec/IKE policies](../user/azure-stack-vpn-gateway-settings.md#ipsecike-parameters)

### Load Balancer

#### Load Balancer directing traffic to one backend VM in specific scenarios

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases. 
- Cause: When enabling **Session Affinity** on a load balancer, the 2 tuple hash utilizes the PA IP (Physical Address IP) instead of the private IPs assigned to the VMs. In scenarios where traffic directed to the load balancer arrives through a VPN, or if all the client VMs (source IPs) reside on the same node and Session Affinity is enabled, all traffic is directed to one backend VM.
- Occurrence: Common

<!-- ## Compute -->

<!-- ## Storage -->
<!-- ## SQL and MySQL-->
<!-- ## App Service -->
<!-- ## Usage -->
<!-- ### Identity -->
<!-- ### Marketplace -->
::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="azs-2005"
## Update

For known Azure Stack Hub update issues, see [Troubleshooting Updates in Azure Stack Hub](azure-stack-troubleshooting.md#troubleshoot-azure-stack-hub-updates).

### Update failed to install package Microsoft.AzureStack.Compute.Installer to CA VM

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: During update, a process takes a lock on the new content that needs to be copied to CA VM. When the update fails, the lock is released.
- Remediation: Resume the update.
- Occurrence: Rare

## Portal

### Administrative subscriptions

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: The two administrative subscriptions that were introduced with version 1804 should not be used. The subscription types are **Metering** subscription, and **Consumption** subscription.
- Remediation: If you have resources running on these two subscriptions, recreate them in user subscriptions.
- Occurrence: Common

## Networking

### Network Security Groups

#### Cannot delete an NSG if NICs not attached to running VM

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: When disassociating an NSG and a NIC that is not attached to a running VM, the update (PUT) operation for that object fails at the network controller layer. The NSG will be updated at the network resource provider layer, but not on the network controller, so the NSG moves to a failed state.
- Remediation: Attach the NICs associated to the NSG that needs to be removed with running VMs, and disassociate the NSG or remove all the NICs that were associated with the NSG.
- Occurrence: Common

#### DenyAllOutbound rule cannot be created

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: An explicit **DenyAllOutbound** rule to the internet cannot be created in an NSG during VM creation as this will prevent the communication required for the VM deployment to complete.
- Remediation: Allow outbound traffic to the internet during VM creation, and modify the NSG to block the required traffic after VM creation is complete.
- Occurrence: Common

### Virtual Network Gateway

#### Documentation

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: The documentation links in the overview page of Virtual Network gateway link to Azure-specific documentation instead of Azure Stack Hub. Use the following links for the Azure Stack Hub documentation:

  - [Gateway SKUs](../user/azure-stack-vpn-gateway-about-vpn-gateways.md#gateway-skus)
  - [Highly Available Connections](../user/azure-stack-vpn-gateway-about-vpn-gateways.md#gateway-availability)
  - [Configure BGP on Azure Stack Hub](../user/azure-stack-vpn-gateway-settings.md#gateway-requirements)
  - [ExpressRoute circuits](azure-stack-connect-expressroute.md)
  - [Specify custom IPsec/IKE policies](../user/azure-stack-vpn-gateway-settings.md#ipsecike-parameters)
  
### Load Balancer

#### Load Balancer directing traffic to one backend VM in specific scenarios

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases. 
- Cause: When enabling **Session Affinity** on a load balancer, the 2 tuple hash utilizes the PA IP (Physical Address IP) instead of the private IPs assigned to the VMs. In scenarios where traffic directed to the load balancer arrives through a VPN, or if all the client VMs (source IPs) reside on the same node and Session Affinity is enabled, all traffic is directed to one backend VM.
- Occurrence: Common

#### Public IP

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: The **IdleTimeoutInMinutes** value for a public IP that is associated to a load balancer cannot be changed. The operation puts the public IP into a failed state.
- Remediation: To bring the public IP back into a successful state, change the **IdleTimeoutInMinutes** value on the load balancer rule that references the public IP back to the original value (the default is 4 minutes).
- Occurrence: Common

## Compute

### Issues deploying virtual machine scale set with Standard_DS2_v2 size using the portal

- Applicable: This issue applies to the 2005 release.
- Cause: A portal bug causes scale set creation with Standard_DS2_v2 size to fail.
- Remediation: Use PowerShell or CLI to deploy this virtual machine scale set VM size.

### Issues using VM extensions in Ubuntu Server 20.04

- Applicable: This issue applies to **Ubuntu Server 20.04 LTS**.
- Cause: Some Linux distributions have transitioned to Python 3.8 and removed the legacy `/usr/bin/python` entrypoint for Python altogether. Linux distribution users who have transitioned to Python 3.x must ensure the legacy `/usr/bin/python` entry point exists before attempting to deploy those extensions to their VMs. Otherwise, the extension deployment might fail.
- Remediation: Follow the resolution steps in [Issues using VM extensions in Python 3-enabled Linux Azure Virtual Machines systems](/azure/virtual-machines/extensions/issues-using-vm-extensions-python-3) but skip step 2, because Azure Stack Hub does not have the **Run command** functionality.

### NVv4 VM size on portal

- Applicable: This issue applies to 2002 and later.
- Cause: When going through the VM creation experience, you will see the VM size: NV4as_v4. Customers who have the hardware required for the AMD MI25-based Azure Stack Hub GPU preview are able to have a successful VM deployment. All other customers will have a failed VM deployment with this VM size.
- Remediation: By design in preparation for the Azure Stack Hub GPU preview.

### Consumed compute quota

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: When creating a new virtual machine, you may receive an error such as **This subscription is at capacity for Total Regional vCPUs on this location. This subscription is using all 50 Total Regional vCPUs available.**. This indicates that the quota for total cores available to you has been reached.
- Remediation: Ask your operator for an add-on plan with additional quota. Editing the current plan's quota will not work or reflect increased quota.
- Occurrence: Rare

### VM overview blade does not show correct computer name

- Applicable: This issue applies to all releases.
- Cause: When viewing details of a VM in the overview blade, the computer name shows as **(not available)**. This is by design for VMs created from specialized disks/disk snapshots, and appears for Marketplace images as well.
- Remediation: View the **Properties** blade under **Settings**.

### Virtual machine scale set

#### Create failures during patch and update on 4-node Azure Stack Hub environments

- Applicable: This issue applies to all supported releases.
- Cause: Creating VMs in an availability set of 3 fault domains and creating a virtual machine scale set instance fails with a **FabricVmPlacementErrorUnsupportedFaultDomainSize** error during the update process on a 4-node Azure Stack Hub environment.
- Remediation: You can create single VMs in an availability set with 2 fault domains successfully. However, scale set instance creation is still not available during the update process on a 4-node Azure Stack Hub deployment.

## Storage

### Retention period reverts to 0

- Applicable: This issue applies to releases 2002 and 2005.
- Cause: If you specify a time period other than 0 in the retention period setting, it reverts to 0 (the default value of this setting) during the 2002 or 2005 update. The 0 days setting takes effect immediately after the update finishes, which causes all existing deleted storage accounts and any upcoming newly deleted storage accounts to be immediately out of retention and marked for periodic garbage collection (which runs hourly).
- Remediation: Manually specify the retention period to a correct period. Any storage account that has already been garbage collected before the new retention period is specified, is not recoverable.  

## Resource providers

### SQL/MySQL

- Applicable: This issue applies to release 2002.
- Cause: If the stamp contains SQL resource provider (RP) version 1.1.33.0 or earlier, upon update of the stamp, the blades for SQL/MySQL do not load.
- Remediation: Update the RP to version 1.1.47.0.

### App Service

- Applicable: This issue applies to release 2002.
- Cause: If the stamp contains App Service resource provider (RP) version 1.7 and older, upon update of the stamp, the blades for App Service do not load.
- Remediation: Update the RP to version 2002 Q2.

## PowerShell

[!Include[Known issue for install - one](../includes/known-issue-az-install-1.md)]

[!Include[Known issue for install - two](../includes/known-issue-az-install-2.md)]

<!-- ## Storage -->
<!-- ## SQL and MySQL-->
<!-- ## App Service -->
<!-- ## Usage -->
<!-- ### Identity -->
<!-- ### Marketplace -->
::: moniker-end

::: moniker range=">=azs-2005"
## Archive

To access archived known issues for an older version, use the version selector dropdown above the table of contents on the left, and select the version you want to see.

## Next steps

- [Review update activity checklist](release-notes-checklist.md)
- [Review list of security updates](release-notes-security-updates.md)
::: moniker-end

<!------------------------------------------------------------>
<!------------------- UNSUPPORTED VERSIONS ------------------->
<!------------------------------------------------------------>
::: moniker range="azs-2002"
## 2002 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1910"
## 1910 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1908"
## 1908 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1907"
## 1907 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1906"
## 1906 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1905"
## 1905 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1904"
## 1904 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1903"
## 1903 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1902"
## 1902 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1901"
## 1901 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1811"
## 1811 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1809"
## 1809 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1808"
## 1808 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1807"
## 1807 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1805"
## 1805 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1804"
## 1804 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1803"
## 1803 archived known issues
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="azs-1802"
## 1802 archived known issues
::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="<azs-2005"
You can access [older versions of Azure Stack Hub known issues on the TechNet Gallery](https://aka.ms/azsarchivedrelnotes). These archived documents are provided for reference purposes only and do not imply support for these versions. For information about Azure Stack Hub support, see [Azure Stack Hub servicing policy](azure-stack-servicing-policy.md). For further assistance, contact Microsoft Customer Support Services.
::: moniker-end
